                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            May 20, 2009


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at
    10:03 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and Springsource.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Justin Erenkrantz
        J Aaron Farr
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson Jr
        William Rowe Jr
        Sam Ruby
        Henning Schmiedehausen

    Directors Absent:

        Greg Stein

    Guests:

        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell
        Jason van Zyl
        Brian Fox
        Phil Steitz
        Tony Stevenson at 10:40

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of

       See: board_minutes_2009_03_18.txt

       Tabled.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       On April 28th, we held a board special meeting, via concall and irc.
       The topic of this meeting was discussion regarding the draft and
       proposed 2009-2010 budget. The concall was held because it appeared
       to me that we were not making much progress at all trying to
       handle this via Email. Most line items of the budget solicited no
       negative feedback, and the only areas which seem to be a point of
       discussion are: (1) The EA position's full-time/part-time status;
       (2) The requested additional amount for focused sponsorship
       handling and (3) the connection between #2 and the external PR
       Agency contract handled by PRC.

       To further clarify the expected time-requirement for the EA position,
       I again queried various committees to obtain their "usage stats" on
       such a position, should it exist ("how much could/would you offload
       to the EA?"). Responses clearly seem to indicate that, as expected,
       a full-time EA (though with a varying cyclic load) would be required.

       The options regarding the dedicated (or focused) Sponsorship liasion
       task included officially adding this, at the required level, to
       the current contract with HALO or "outsourcing" this to another
       person/agency. If bundled with HALO, then the scope of the contract
       was also discussed, and whether the required "normal" PR/marketing
       aspects would be reduced due to budgetary reasons.

       Although there appears to be consensus that typical PR/marketing
       for the ASF is expected, required and allowed, there does not seem
       to be complete consensus on the levels, budget-wise, this should
       be held at.

       Nevertheless, I feel that we can no longer continue to operate with-
       out an approved budget. We have a fiduciary responsibility to this
       foundation and, therefore, am calling on a vote for the proposed
       budget. It would be nice for it to be unanimous, but I feel that
       instead it will be one of our very rare "split" votes.

       In addition to the budget (and related) debates, there has been
       continued discussion regarding git, as related to our infrastructure
       as well as our culture. So far, the discussion has been measured.

       The past month has been incredibly busy with board and foundation
       related activities, in support of various tasks. Additionally, I
       will be presenting a "Tux Talk" for HP, one of our Sponsors, next
       month regarding the ASF and Open Source in general.

       Finally, we are due for our annual ASF members meeting with an
       election of new members and a new board. I have proposed a date of
       June 30th for this meeting.

       Bertrand indicated that he is unavailable the week of June 30th.
       
       Sam questions whether the feedback indicated a full time EA
       was needed.
       
       Geir asked what the ramifications are for not having an
       approved budget. Jim simply responded that it reflects very
       badly on us. Legally we could proceed as we had been. There
       would be no operational ramifications.

    B. President [Justin]

       Justin is currently in a conference in Vancouver.
       
       Budget and lack of closure is a big issue.
       
       ApacheCon talks have basically come to a halt as a direct
       result of the board's lack of closure. ConCom has expressed
       what they wish.
       
       Bill questions whether ConCom come to a conclusion. Justin
       disagrees. Bill notes that no formal resolution has been
       presented to the board.
       
       Justin believes that ConCom has asked for the ASF to step up
       and take on responsibility for the conference. Separate
       sponsorship programs continues to be a big issue. Aaron notes
       that the issue is not Page One, but of taking on ownership of
       the operating of the conference. Bill notes that two phases of
       fundraising is required given the amounts in question. Geir
       notes that bringing it in house can't be done in two or more
       years given existing contracts. Aaron indicated that we have
       some room to maneuver in that we can negotiate a new contract.
       
       Justin believes that it is pointless for him and Lars to
       continue discussions with Cheryl about a new contract until
       this is resolved. Aaron requested that ConCom present concrete
       proposals and plans for the board to vote on.
       
       Sam echoed statements by Bill and Aaron that concrete
       proposals would be helpful at this time. Justin believes that
       this was covered by his president's proposal, and believes
       that if he produces such concrete proposal, all he will get
       back is a set of vague criticisms.
       
       Jim suggests that those who have concerns join ConCom; ConCom
       is then to produce a concrete set of recommendations. This met
       with general agreement. Jim suggests that ConCom come up with
       such a plan by the next board meeting. This also met with
       general agreement.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2009-05-18 for checking,
      savings and credit card accounts.

      Contributions :
         - funds for Joost Bronze Sponsorship received
         - no major PayPal contributions of note

      Tasks Done :
       - FY2007 taxes complete, sent w/ coverletter on 2009-05-12
       - notified PRC of outstanding/expired 'metal' sponsors, and working
         to establish better process for fundraising support
       - paypal reconciled (thanks Aaron!)
       - got "direct pay" instigated.  Waiting for another dongle from WF
       - bills : Rosenlaw and PRNewsWire
       - line of credit application for Sun support vendor
       - invoice for Google Platinum 2009 sent to Google as per Sally/PRCs
         instructions
       - resent Sunstar checks due to expiration and USPO fail
       - Invoice issued for IONA

      Todo :
       - FY2008 taxes
       - review switching from accrual to cash accounting
       - list of donors for "thank yous"

      In general, I think that treasury is working smoothly.  I hope to have
      a first-cut of a budgeting spreadsheet by this meeting.  The point of
      such a thing isn't to do "push-down" budgeting as it was mistakenly 
      interpreted, but really get a better picture of what we're spending
      on a monthly basis per plan than QB can provide.  For example, I'd 
      like to recognize sponsor revenue on a monthly basis (i.e. 1/12th of
      a given sponsors contribution) so we can get a real sense of what
      the income is for a given month, what the budgeted spend is for a
      given month, and what actual spending is. We should then get a much
      better sense of where we are per plan, what extra cash we have per 
      the budget to move to other uses, etc.

      Standard reports follow.  Note they are now on a calendar month boundary
      so these are for April 2009, and up to April 30, 2009 respectively.
      Both remain on accrual basis. 

     Statement of Financial Income and Expense - April 2009
     Accrual Basis

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                          122.82
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                  20,739.39     
              Total Contributions Income                            20,739.39 [1]

           Total Income                                             20,862.21

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                     305.56
              Cash Discounts                                            51.47
              Contract Labor                                         1,600.00
              PayPal Charges                                            17.66
              Postage and Delivery                                      19.95
              Printing and Reproduction                                -78.48
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                    518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                     666.38
                   Infrastructure Staff                12,000.00             [2]
                Total Infrastructure                          13,184.38

                Public Relations
                   Public Relations Staff               3,636.36 
                   Public Relations - Other             1,250.00
                Total Public Relations                         4,886.36

              Total Program Expenses                                18,070.74

           Total Expense                                            19,986.90

        Net Ordinary Income                                            875.31

     Net Income                                                        875.31 [3]

    Notes :

    [1] This is on an accrual basis - it's the 20k invoice for IONA.  On a cash basis, it's
        $5800, reflecting the received wire from Joost for their Bronze sponsorship.
    [2] This reflects two checks written to Sunstar.  One is because our WF direct pay didn't
        send the check on 4/2, and the second is becuase the 3/3 check was returned as 
        undeliverable by the USPO.  Now, I had to issue two more this month, one because
        the 2/2 check expired, and the second was because I had to stop the replacement for
        the 3/3/ check as that didn't make it, so I issued another.  Upshot is that this
        looks very confusing, and I'm happy to go over the details w/ anyone interested.
        I've also intitiated getting a DirectPay system, so we can electronically pay Sunstar
        and any other vendor.
    [3] On a cash basis, we'd be $14k in the red for April 2009


     Statement of Financial Position
     Accrual Basis As of April 30, 2009

                                                    Apr 30, 09     Apr 30, 08     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Paypal                                   10,885.17      13,714.47     -2,829.30        -20.6%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account             36,187.52      91,364.58    -55,177.06        -60.4%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     298,922.01     156,970.55    141,951.46         90.4%
           Total Checking/Savings                    345,994.70     262,049.60     83,945.10         32.0%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                      20,000.00           0.00     20,000.00        100.0%
           Total Accounts Receivable                  20,000.00           0.00     20,000.00        100.0%

        Total Current Assets                         365,994.70     262,049.60    103,945.10         39.7%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    365,994.70     262,049.60    103,945.10         39.7%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna            666.38           0.00        666.38        100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                    58.30           0.00         58.30        100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz           1,761.68         100.92      1,660.76      1,645.6%
             Total Credit Cards                        2,486.36         100.92      2,385.44      2,363.7%

           Total Current Liabilities                   2,486.36         100.92      2,385.44      2,363.7%

        Total Liabilities                              2,486.36         100.92      2,385.44      2,363.7%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         261,948.68     241,248.43     20,700.25          8.6%
           Net Income                                101,559.66      20,700.25     80,859.41        390.6%
        Total Equity                                 363,508.34     261,948.68    101,559.66         38.8%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      365,994.70     262,049.60    103,945.10         39.7%

       Geir notes that the comparison for FY 2008 and FY 2009 was surprisingly
       controversial.  Jim indicated that it is easy to take out of context.
       Bill suggest that the comparisons be broken out exactly as the
       budget is in SVN.
       
       Justin mentioned an obligation for public outreach expense
       that we have approved that is not reflected in the budget
       numbers. TAC expenses may not be fully accounted for just yet.
       
       We agreed to remove the comparisons from the minutes. Geir plans to work
       to having something that we can post next month.

    D. Secretary [Sam]

       The experiment to provide the opportunity for Officers to process
       incoming faxes has had, at best, mixed results.  Only two such
       officers, Jukka and Upayavira, participated (note: Sebb continues
       to be invaluable).  On the other hand, providing the opportunity to
       participate removes the pressure to provide timely turnaround.  That,
       coupled with all investment in automation, has reduced the task to
       a few hours a week.

       The Secretarial Assistant contract expires at the end of this month.
       The plan is to have all of the remaining backlog of ICLAs, CCLAs, and
       grants scanned to svn (but perhaps not sorted) by that time.

       The suggestion is to not scan the box of financial records,
       but shred the contents after seven years. Henning and Aaron
       agreed, Justin disagreed. Bill suggested that I check with legal.

    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       Apart from having digested a large quantity of email on the budget
       and related topics, there is not a lot to report.  There has been
       no movement in the Admin Search Committee this past month.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    1. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

    2. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 2

       No report submitted.

    3. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Sam]

       See Attachment 3

       Bill to get with Mark to ask what "direct" means.

    4. Apache Conference Planning Project [Lars Eilebrecht / Geir]

       See Attachment 4

    5. Apache Public Relations Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 5

       Bill plans to bring up remove restrictions on PRC w.r.t.
       concom as new business.
       
       Jim to report back on the expired sponsorships continuing to appear
       on the ASF Thanks page.

    6. Apache Infrastructure Team [Paul Querna / Justin]

       See Attachment 6

    7. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Greg]

       See Attachment 7

       A few comments were made about approving TAC independent of the
       overall budget.  This discussion was deferred to the actual
       discussion of the budget.

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Garrett Rooney / J Aaron]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Justin]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Bill]

       See Attachment C

       No report received.  Bill sent a reminder for June and updated Marvin.

    D. Apache Attic Project [Henri Yandell / Jim]

       See Attachment D

       Henri noted that the Unix group is now deleted.

    E. Apache Buildr Project [Alex Boisvert / Henning]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache C++ Standard Library Project [Martin Sebor / Bertrand]

       See Attachment F

       Looks like the infrastructure-hosted build schema may arrive
       just in time

    G. Apache Cocoon Project [Vadim Gritsenko / Justin]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Continuum Project [Emmanuel Venisse / Henning]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache CouchDB Project [Damien Katz / Geir]

       See Attachment I

       After 5 months of successive monthly reporting, it makes
       sense for this to move to a Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct schedule.

    J. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Sam]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache HTTP Server Project [Roy T. Fielding / Jim]

       See Attachment K

       It is good to see enthusiastic users pushed at the dev@ channel.

    L. Apache HttpComponents Project [Erik Abele / Bertrand]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / J Aaron]

       See Attachment M

       Suggest WSRP4J be included next month; and suggest that they
       attend to date formats. Aaron to follow up.

    N. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Bill]

       See Attachment N

       The status report is inadequate for approval. Glad to hear
       that the PMC moves forward on finding their new Chair. Thanks
       to MvdB for his service to the community.

    O. Apache Lenya Project [Gregor J. Rothfuss / Greg]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Sam]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Perl Project [Geoffrey Young / J Aaron]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache POI Project [Nick Burch / Justin]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Geir]

       See Attachment S

       Carl reported Feb, Mar, Apr as required.  The board requests a
       report for next month and then resume back on track. Jim to update
       Marvin.

    T. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Greg]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache Santuario Project [Berin Lautenbach / Bill]

       See Attachment U

       Bill sent a reminder and updated Marvin.

    V. Apache Turbine Project [Scott Eade / Bertrand]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Tuscany Project [Ant Elder / Henning]

       See Attachment W

       Henning to suggest that they don't answer questions so quickly
       -- giving users an opportunity to participate.

    X. Apache Velocity Project [Will Glass-Husain / Jim]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Henning]

       See Attachment Y

       Again, it is good to see engagement of the users.

    Z. Apache Xerces Project [Gareth Reakes / Geir]

       See Attachment Z

       The board thanks to Gareth for his service to the project, and is
       glad to see GSoC students becoming committers.

    AA. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Justin]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache XML Graphics Project [Jeremias Maerki / J Aaron]

       See Attachment AB

       Bertrand will monitor.

    All committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent, with
    the exception of the Jakarta report.

 7. Special Orders

   A.  Approval of ASF 2009-2010 Budget

       See Attachment AC.

       Sam is concerned that the time would go unused, as with the previous
       EA.  Sander would like the flexibility to be able to budget for a full
       time EA.  Bill indicates that a manager is a full time job.
       Collectively, we previously had indicated that we wanted a doer not a
       manager.  Jim recited a set of input, and feels that we need to offload
       the work that is not the best use of our time.

       Justin suggests removing the word "commission" from the budget item for
       sponsorship, and strike the word "build farm" from the part time
       sysadmin.  These changes were applied during the course of the meeting.
       Additionally, the "Program Event Budget is moved to" line was also
       struck.

       Geir notes that we are voting on a partial budget.  Bill notes that we
       have updated the budget, and suggests that if anybody wants to modify
       that the budget, they are welcome to bring forward resolutions.  Geir
       continues to be concerned with the rather large amount (the actual
       dollar amount is in question) that we aren't considering.

       In response to questions to Henri: sponsor "Dir" isn't meant to be a
       director, but could be a Liaison.  EA amount quoted is a ceiling.  If
       approved, this means that the individual committees have an
       authorization to spend these amounts without requiring additional board
       approval.  We would we deal with projected income shortfalls when (and
       only if) such events occur.

       If this budget is approved, we have the ability to renegotiate the HALO
       contract.  Jim's preference is to extend the HALO contract.

       Bertrand considers the following to be "experimental" and would like
       sponsorship director, EA, outside PR services to be reevaluated next
       year.

       Aaron doesn't see any [VOTE] on the PRC list representing a concrete
       proposal for the $30K Sponsorship Dir line.  Sander indicates that
       there isn't a full consensus on an RFP, but believes that $60K is in
       line with what we need.

       A vote was held, reflecting on the contents of the budget as contained
       in Attachment AC.

       Bertrand - yes, including comments above
       Justin   - yes
       J Aaron  - no
       Jim      - yes, with Bertand's comments
       Geir     - no
       William  - yes
       Sam      - no
       Henning  - abstain

       The motion passes.

   B.  Termination of the Shale PMC

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it no longer in the best
       interest of the Foundation to continue the Apache Shale project
       due to inactivity

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache Shale
       project is hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Attic PMC be and hereby is tasked with
       oversight over the software developed by the Apache Shale
       Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Shale is
       hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Shale PMC is hereby terminated.
       
       Special Order 7B, Termination of the Shale PMC, was approved
       by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


   C. PMC chair change for XML Graphics

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Jeremias Maerki
       to the office of Vice President, Apache XML Graphics, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Jeremias Maerki from the office of Vice President, Apache
       XML Graphics, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache
       XML Graphics project has chosen by vote to recommend Simon Pepping
       as the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Jeremias Maerki is
       relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache XML Graphics, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Simon Pepping be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache XML Graphics, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
       appointed.
       
       Special Order 7C, PMC chair change for XML Graphics, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


   D. Change of Public Relations Committee Charter

       WHEREAS, the Public Relations Committee was chartered and
       responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to handle
       public relations on behalf of The Apache Software Foundation,
       including trademark licensing and other issues regarding
       management of the Apache brand and raising of funds, but
       excluding the ApacheCon conferences (which shall remain a
       responsibility of the Apache Conference Planning Committee); and

       WHEREAS, the Apache Conference Planning Committee would benefit
       from the oversight and expertise of Public Relations Committee
       in relation to the Apache brand, and coordination in the raising
       of funds;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Public Relations 
       Committee, an ASF Board Committee, hereby is rechartered
       pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Public Relations Committee be and hereby is
       responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to handle
       public relations on behalf of The Apache Software Foundation,
       including trademark licensing and other issues regarding
       management of the Apache brand and raising of funds.

    [c.f. http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2006/board_minutes_2006_11_15.txt ]
    
    Special Order 7D, Change of Public Relations Committee
    Charter, tabled.

    Aaron to suggest a process forward on board@.


 8. Discussion Items

    Scheduling of next ASF Members Meeting: Suggested June 30/July 2;
    discussion will continue on board@.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 12:30 p.m. (Pacific)


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Quiet month.  Two outstanding issues were getting the TCK for
JSR-196 and resolving a spec license wording issue for OpenJPA.
The former is complete, and the latter is in process - I've 
heard from Sun that they understand and will fix, and am waiting
for a formal suggestion for the fix from them.

Last week was the quarterly JCP EC face-to-face meeting, this 
time held in Hursley, UK.  I attended in person, and there is
much to report back.  It was nice to see the other EC members
again, Winchester is a lovely town, with buildings twice the 
age of my home country, the IBM Hursley campus is a grand place
with a rich history, and that's about all there is to report.
I've asked Oracle if they could provide a statement or other
form of guidance regarding their intentions going forward wrt
Java, open standards, etc (IOW, the TCK...)  if their 
acquisition of Sun does complete, and Oracle's representative
said he'll do what he can.  Both companies involved, as well
as other EC companies, are very concerned with ensuring that
business-as-usual continues until the aquisition completes,
if it completes.  (Translation : maybe we'll get something,
but it's up to Oracle lawyers)

In other news, the Apache Software Foundation was nominated for
JCP Member of the Year again.  Results will be announced at 
JavaOne in the first week of June.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For Apr 2009: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to be
dealt with promptly by the security team.

  2    Support question
  5    Vulnerability report
       of which
            1    Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@apache.org]
            2    Vulnerability report [tomcat, direct]
            1    Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]
            1    Vulnerability report [Juddi, via security@apache.org]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

General News

* The Conference Planning Committee has voted to cancel the renewal of
  the current ApacheCon master contract with SCP. The cancellation letter
  has been sent to SCP 25 April 2009, and SCP has confirmed receipt of the
  cancellation letter 8 May 2009. The ASF will honor all its obligations
  under the current conference production agreement, and at least
  ApacheCon US 2009 will still be produced under the current agreement
  with SCP. It is the intention of the Conference Planning Committee to
  continue working with SCP, and to start discussions on a new contract
  and conference production agreement with SCP.

ApacheMeetUp/BarCampApache Asia 2009 (Aug/Sept)

* No further updates at this time.

ApacheCon US 2009 News (2-6 November)

* Public Relations: SCP has engaged the PR company Page One for this event
  as recommended by PRC/ConCom. The PRC will take a more active role and
  oversee PR for ApacheCon US 2009. Exact details are still to be worked
  out.

* Contract/Pricing: the conference pricing is being proposed to the
  planners R.S.N. in order to finish all of the contractual details for
  this event.

* Content: the following PMC's have proposed 1/2 day or more of programming
  and the timing is being coordinated this week; Hadoop, Lucene, Tuscany,
  Synapse, Web Services, Directory, Geronimo, Tomcat, OFBiz, httpd
  including mod_perl, and Felix, plus the ever welcome Community and
  Business days.  One special track is being prepared, led by Jukka, for
  the umbrella of Content Technology with specific PMC's to be determined.
  These tracks represent at least five major contingencies of interest,
  ensuring a well rounded program for a very broad and diverse audience.

* Further PMC messaging and detailed tasks will be following by the end of
  May, with the intent of opening registration on Jun 22nd with the full
  blitz of PR and PMC-originated communications.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

OVERVIEW + GENERAL INFO

Discussion continued about PRC budget, both for external PR agency
as well as any "extra" costs associated with ACUS09.

Discussion continued re: possible restructuring of the PRC with
Jim leaving chair and Sally taking over.

Discussion continued regarding possibly engaging RedMonk regarding
their feedback/input on our external exposure to analysts and
others.

Discussion initiated regarding purpose of ApacheCon US '09 (also
involved was Concom).

Received request from ConCom for PRC to officially oversee the ApacheCon
Business & Community Track.

Reminder of ASF Mission statement posted to Foundation blog + Twitter

Apache HTTP Server is a Linux Journal Readers' Choice category winner again


GENERAL + COMMUNITY OUTREACH

Note sent to PMCs regarding opportunities to post to blogs.apache.org

Follow-up with Michael Wechner/ASF Filmworks progress of editing cycle; an
example can be seen at:

   http://www.wyonapictures.com/movies/apache/doug-cutting_v2_43-letterbox.mov
 ---please keep confidential; it's not ready for distribution yet!

Follow-up with the MIT/UInnsbruck Branding study on the ASF

Request for ASF involvement in upcoming Libre Graphics Meeting; suggested
request be forward to the XML Graphics PMC


MEDIA AND ANALYST RELATIONS

Edited ApacheCon Europe 2009 wrap-up press release

Completed and distributed Press Release for OFBiz Release Branch 9.3

Discussions continued on benefits of engaging analysts RedMonk (see
above)

Discussions continued on retaining PageOne PR to help drive publicity for
ApacheCon US/OAK in connection with the 10th Anniversary Big Feather
Birthday Bash. Update May 18th, 2009: SCP has hired PageOne to work
on the ACUS09 show.

Coordinated with Web Host Industry Review on article featuring Apache
httpd.

Coordinated Yahoo!'s press announcement on Cloud computing initiatives
using Apache Hadoop:

   http://investor.news.com/cnet/?GUID=8511908&Page=MediaViewer&Ticker=INTC

Discussed possible ASF position on Oracle's acquisition of Sun; 

Justin interviewed with InfoWorld reporter via Eclipse Foundation

Apache HiveMind's retirement to the Attic received media attention
http://www.itworld.com/open-source/66829/apache-retires-hivemind-component-
project

Tracking old press releases on PR Newswire archives to post to
http://www.apache.org/foundation/news.html  --it's currently out of date

Received request for possible interview by Web Host Industry Review

Total media hits during April: 211


BRAND, TRADEMARK, AND LOGO USAGE

Permission granted for screenshots to be used in textbook on Applied
Information Security

Denied request to use ASF logo on http://www.mi-design.co.za/web-design.php

Received request to use Apache Wicket logo to promote Wicket trainings on
http://www.basementcoders.com/ Website

Followed through on further unauthorized content on Hadoop; content on
Google site has since been corrected

Followed through with Hyperic relating to their founders' "role" with the
ASF

Discussions on Trademark "SpamAssassin" and "Powered by SpamAssassin"
trademarks

Received query from Legal team regarding Xerces' trademark status

Received request from Legal team to include (tm) notice on Apache icon


SPONSORSHIP

Discussion re: sponsorship - should this fall under the PRC's bailiwick?

Follow up with Google on renewal and back-billing, as well as renewal for
Progress/IONA

PRC still discussing possibility of retaining Delia Frees to manage overall
ASF sponsorship program


FUNDRAISING

Discussion re: fundraising –-should this fall under the PRC's bailiwick?

Received request from HotWax Media who want to merchandise Apache products
online

Discussion on alternate methods of bringing funds to the ASF: 1. Lower
barrier for ‘Thanks' donations --possibly "Copper" level @ $1K/year. Also
individual donations at a monthly deductible via PayPal @ +/-$5/mo.

2. Hardware Donations; update wishlist at
http://apache.org/dev/hardware-wish-list.html and create a list of proposed
equipment needed. Folks can either donate actual systems or PayPal funds
directly for dedicated use.

3. Sponsored Tutorials site. Allow Projects to post tutorials and HowTos,
with ability to raise sponsorship money by having entire site sponsored as
well as individual page and/or tutorial sponsors (i.e., the Website version
of sponsored "Hadoop Track" at ApacheCon, for example)

4. Tutorials in printed Magazines, as well as possibly payment for
syndicated tutorial content online


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Shipped errant SAS cable back to Provantage.

16 new backup tapes ordered, charged to ASF credit card.

Began organizing volunteers for moving our gear in SARA. We still
need to purchase a disk replacement for aurora (websites).

Philip Gollucci upgraded all of our FreeBSD servers to 7.2-RELEASE,
based on a central machine, tb.apache.org, for compiling and pushing
out the software.

Paul Querna upgraded subversion to 1.6, splitting out the remaining
private portions of the "asf" repository into a new "infra" repository.
Note to officers: the new location containing the asf-authorization file is
https://svn.apache.org/repos/infra/infrastructure/trunk/subversion/authorization

Sent an opt-out letter for Phorm scanning on apache.org and related domains.

Discussed the lack of progress with respect to upgrading the Confluence
auto-export plugin to be compatible with recent releases of Confluence.
Adaptavist again claims to be nearly finished with the work (ETA 2 months),
but if the situation hasn't been resolved in that timeframe we will need to
pursue other options, including migrating all of cwiki.apache.org to the
latest version of moin-moin.

Updated the Release FAQ, with input from several contributors.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

General News
============

A quiet month, not much going on. We sent out and received back all but one
of our Feedback surveys for ApacheCon Europe 2009. The survey can be found
on the main board list. Raw archives will go into a private TAC area soon.

They are rather long, but if nothing else, folks should look at the
Testimonial sections for both AC US 2008 survey (Posted last month) and AC
Europe 2009, they are proof beyond any reasonable doubt that the ASF
ApacheCon events and TAC playing its part are highly valued.

TAC submitted its budget for the 2009/2010 financial year which covers it
for the next two ApacheCon events. Until this is approved (or not) then I
feel that TAC volunteers are just biding their time waiting for this to
happen.

As we would expect applications to open around August for the next
ApacheCon, there is work to be done in June/July to build up to that open
period, so I hope that this gets resolved soon.

Last report, we were contacted by Bertrand to liaise with PRC and get a blog
post done about the ApacheCon experiences, I did not get this done in time,
please accept apologies and expect it done before the next report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

Abdera has been largely quiet over the past few months.  Work on the
1.0 release stalled due to the personal lives of various committers
taking over their free time.  Fortunately, James Snell has been
picking things up off the ground over the past few weeks.  There have
been a number of threads about the future direction of the project,
and a large number of jira issues have been addressed and resolved.
Once the remaining backlog of issues is taken care of a 1.0 release
will hopefully be rolled.

Unfortunately, Garrett Rooney has not been able to give the project
the attention it deserves as PMC chair over the past few months, so
he'll be stepping down shortly.  Hopefully a new PMC chair can be
found by the next board meeting.

There are no other issues that require board attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

This is the April report which missed the submission deadline.
Submitting for the May meeting.

Community:
 * The ActiveMQ project has had another very busy but quiet quarter.
 * The development and user lists continue to stay vibrant.
 * The Camel sub project has completed moving to a TLP.

Development:
 * ActiveMQ 5.3.x and 6.x development is underway.
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 3.0 development is underway.  The current architecture
is being refactored to improve performance and
  to allow for new features to be added more easily such as a
Failover Transport.

Releases:
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 2.2.4
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 2.2.5


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Ant Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Attic Project

This month HiveMind moved to the Attic.  The one outstanding action
is removal of its unix group, but otherwise it is closed down with a task
for the future to evaluate deleting the hivemind-user@ mailing list.
Users have indicated the desire to fork HiveMind at the OPS4J open
development umbrella.  One question that came up during that
discussion was noting that the HiveMind software used the older
copyright header (in the header rather than the NOTICE), and our
decision not to fix that. A JIRA item was used to manage the end of
life process [ATTIC-1].

All of this will be documented this month to define a repeatable
process, and applied to Shale which voted to enter the Attic last
month [this will be on this month's board meeting agenda].


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Buildr Project

Since our March board report, we had two significant events:

1) We released Buildr 1.3.4, our first release out of the
incubator and our first release not conducted by Assaf Arkin,
demonstrating some independence and repeatability in our release
process. The release itself is a balance of bug fixes and incremental
improvements.

2) We elected a new committer (Daniel Spiewak) which brings our total
number of committers to six and adds to the diversity to the project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache C++ Standard Library Project

Notable changes since previous report (February 2009):

  Project activity is still very low.  Only a handful of minor issues
  have been reported and resolved.

  Due to budgetary/resource constraints, Rogue Wave has abandoned all
  its support for the project and either laid off or reassigned stdcxx
  engineers.  This will have implications for testing the code on non
  mainstream platforms.  Nightly testing infrastructure will need to
  be reimplemented so as to avoid relying on Rogue Wave resources.

Future plans:

  Continue to work toward the bug fix stdcxx 4.2.2 release and on adding
  experimental support for C++ 0x in stdcxx 4.3.0 and complete support in
  5.0.  Change nightly testing infrastructure to avoid relying on Rogue
  Wave resources.

Community:

  16 committers (N/C)
  11 PMC members (N/C)


Bug tracking database changes since the last report:

  Total issues: 1025 (+3)
  Outstanding:   337 (-3)
  Resolved:      165 (+1)
  Closed:        523 (+4)

Planned releases:

  4.2.2  Spring 2009 (was Winter 2008)
  4.3.0  Fall 2009 (was Summer 2009)
  5.0.0  2010 (was end of 2009)

Release history:

  4.2.1  May 1, 2008
  4.2.0  October 29, 2007 (incubating)
  4.1.3  January 30, 2006 (incubating)
  4.1.2  September 7, 2005 (snapshot, incubating)

N/C = No Change.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

 Community:

* Added Robin Wyles as a committer. He was voted in as committer during
  last quarter, but his papers and account were creating during this
  quarter.
* Reinhard Pötz together with Steven Dolg have involved students of
  Vienna University of Technology to work on implementing Profiling for
  the Cocoon 3.
* GSoC student Dariusz Łuksza is working on Cocoon 3 Monitoring.


 Legal:

* Added a privacy page, due to our usage of Google Analytics:
 http://cocoon.apache.org/1508_1_1.html


 Releases:

* No new releases.


 Ongoing Work:

* Most of the ongoing work is happening on Cocoon 3 branch. Cocoon 2.1
  and Cocoon 2.2 are in the maintenance mode.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Continuum Project

Below are the important events that happened in the project since February.

Releases
--------

* Continuum Data Management 1.2.3.1 (Beta) was released on March 4, 2009
* Continuum 1.3.2 (Beta) was released on March 26, 2009

Development
---------

* We are working on Continuum 1.3.3 (GA)

Community
---------

* New commiter: Jevica Arianne B. Zurbano
* New PMC member: Marica Tan

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache CouchDB Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None

Changes in the PMC membership:
  None

General status:
  Development is still rather quiet, as noted in previous reports.
  Some users were encouraged to discuss issues and contributions on the
  development mail list.

  Most issues on the user mail list are being attended to by various
  developers. That list is also still quiet, but there is a slight increase
  compared to the past year.

Progress of the project:
  Discussion commenced about merging some whiteboard development into
  the trunk.

  No releases since 0.8 on 2007-04-18.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The Apache HTTP server project seems to have increased activity
over the past three months, especially during ApacheCon Europe, but
we have surprisingly little to report for it.  We have no board-level
issues at this time.

We have not added any new PMC members or committers.  We have not
approved any httpd releases.  The only release of any kind was the
long-awaited libapreq2-2.12 on March 13.  We have passed the 1000
mark on open bugzilla issues for httpd (1.3 and 2.x combined) with
little fanfare.

The lack of releases seem to be mostly due to the active work on
trunk for a future 2.3.x (very unstable at the moment) and waiting
for APR to release for some changes needed in 2.2.x.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project

-- Status --

The project is doing fine, there are no issues requiring attention of
the board. Also, as noted in our previous report the project managed to
reach a major milestone: HttpCore 4.0 GA.

-- Releases --

We have had one release since the last report:

  26 January 2009 - HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0

-- Community --

There were no changes in the composition of the committership since the
last report.

The user community is still vibrant; we are seeing continued interest in
the project.

-- Development --

As a result of reaching the major HttpCore 4.0 milestone development has
slowed down a bit. Focus is being put on finishing the documentation for
HttpClient as well as doing general fixes & improvements in anticipation
of the GA release of HttpClient 4.0.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

This past month, particularly recently, has seen good progress with
Incubator projects.  Sling has started a graduation vote, and Pivot is
seriously considering graduation.  Click wanted to graduate, but the
consensus was that it needs to do some community development first.  Two or
three other projects appear ripe to be suspended, although I hope that one
will be revived.

Other projects are keen to enter Incubation.  SocialSite and ACE entered
Incubation, and have reported (below).  Apache Wink would provide JAX-RS
based REST style web services.  Apache VXQuery would provide an
implementation of XQuery.

One issue is that Apache JSecurity/Apache Ki is having trouble finding a
name without someone claiming trademark rights.  The Ki name is the latest
victim, and during that process, the project felt a bit let down by the
legal PMC and the PRC.

----

= Ace =

Apache Ace is a software distribution framework that allows you to centrally
manage and distribute software components, configuration data and other
artifacts to target systems.

Ace just started incubation, on April 24th 2009.

There are currently no issues requiring board or Incubator PMC attention.

Community:
 * In the process of setting up infrastructure, as tracked in Jira here:
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACE-1

Software:
 * Still working on the donation of the initial codebase and documentation.

Licensing and other issues:
 * None at the moment, no code has been committed yet.


= Bluesky =

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

Recent Activity:
After we finished the second code view, we finally filled up IP Clearance,
though wo miss something and had to filled it again, and sent it to ASF. We
have kept on learning Theora and Vorbis, however, little had us achieved. We
have sent a mail to Theora community to call for their help. We wish that
good news would come soon.

  *Examine through the source code to make sure everything is OK before we
upload it to SVN repository.
  *Commit source code to SVN repository after the last check.
  *Continue to learn Theora and Vorbis.


= Chemistry =

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide a Java (and possibly others, like
!JavaScript) implementation of the upcoming CMIS specification. Chemistry
entered incubation on April 30th, 2009.

The Chemistry project has just entered incubation and we've been busy
getting started with everything. Most of the project infrastructure is
already in place, all the CLAs have been received, and the initial codebases
are now in Apache svn.

Many Chemistry developers had a chance to meet in person in the CMIS
!PlugFest at the end of April, and the resulting energy has been visible
also on the new Chemistry mailing lists. Among the results are updates to
the core Chemistry codebase, a new JavaScript-based CMIS client codebase,
and a proposal to contribute a Flex/Air-based CMIS explorer.

Issues before graduation:

  * Stabilize the general interest and energy into a sustainable development
community
  * Make sure that license headers and other details conform with Apache
policies
  * Create an Apache release of the Chemistry codebase


= Droids =

Droids is an Incubator project arrived from Apache Labs. Droids entered
incubation on October, 2009.

It's an intelligent standalone robot framework that allows one to
create and extend existing web robots.

Things are charging along in Droids. The presentations had been successfully
seeded interest in Droids at both
BarCamp and Lightning Talks at ApacheCon EU. In the weeks after the
ApacheCon more people subsrcibed to the mailing list
and we received quite a lot of patches from Mingfai Ma. The patches had been
incooperated in our repository already.
One of the initial 3 committers has gone inactive.

Now the focus is on evolving the design and building a larger community.


= Lokahi =

Did not report, and will most likely be suspended this month.


= PDFBox =

Apache PDFBox is an open source Java library for working with PDF documents.
PDFBox entered incubation on February 7th, 2008.

The PDFBox project continues doing well. We released new versions of the
JempBox and FontBox libraries, and will likely soon make a release of the
main PDFBox library. The development activity is increasing and the
community is diverse. PDFBox will soon be ready to graduate from the
Incubator.

Issues before graduation:

   * Resolve remaining issues found during the license review
   * Release PDFBox 0.8.0-incubating


= PhotArk =

Apache PhotArk will be a complete open source photo gallery application
including a content repository for the images, a display piece, an access
control layer, and upload capabilities.

  * PhotArk was accepted for Incubation on August 19, 2008.
  * Issues before graduation :
      * Grow community
      * Releases

  * The community has not changed over the last month, although we have
started to see more people collaborating on the mailing list.
  * Couple students had showed interest to participate in the PhotArk
project during Google Summer of Code 2009 program. Although their project
ideas were not selected, we are working with these students to see if we can
still get them to join the community.
  * M1 release candidates are being produced and evaluated by community
members. It is the hope of the current community that having a release will
help attract other contributors.


= Pivot =

Pivot is an open-source platform for building rich internet applications in
Java. It has been in incubation since January 2009.

 * Pivot 1.1 was released in April. The team is actively working on version
1.2.
 * Christopher Brind and Sandro Martini were added as PPMC members in May.
 * All demos are now compliant with ASF licensing and have been moved back
into the ASF SVN repository, with the following exceptions:
  * JFree, which still lives on Google Code due to license incompatibilities
  * Google Contacts, which was deleted
  * AMF client, which had a license incompatibility and was also deleted
 * The following articles were published:
  * http://www.insideria.com/2009/04/announcing-apache-pivot-11.html
Announcing Apache Pivot 1.1
  * http://www.insideria.com/2009/04/exploring-apache-pivot-11-part.html
Exploring Apache Pivot 1.1, Part 1
  * http://www.insideria.com/2009/05/exploring-apache-pivot-11-part-1.html
Exploring Apache Pivot 1.1, Part 2
  * http://www.insideria.com/2009/05/exploring-apache-pivot-11-part-2.html
Exploring Apache Pivot 1.1, Part 3
  * http://java.dzone.com/news/building-simple-rss-client Building a Simple
RSS Client in Pivot
  * http://java.dzone.com/articles/table-row-editing-apache-pivot Table Row
Editing in Apache Pivot

Top 3 issues prior to graduation:

 * Seeking feedback on community; if no significant issues are raised,
aiming for graduation in July.


= Sling =

Sling is an OSGI-based scriptable web framework that uses a Java Content
Repository, such as Apache Jackrabbit, to store and manage content.

Sling entered incubation on September 5th, 2007.

There are no issues which require Incubator PMC or board attention at the
moment.

Community

    * Lots of interest around Sling at ApacheCon in March, including
fruitful discussions with people from the Sakai community who are starting
to use Sling for a new version of their software, and starting to actively
participate on our mailing lists. Meeting people from the Apache Felix and
ServiceMix projects has helped build more community bridges around OSGi.
    * Vidar Ramdal was elected as a committer and PPMC member.
    * Juan Jose Vazquez Delgado, Sling committer since the start of
incubation, became more active, contributed a pipelining module based on
Cocoon 3, and is working on improved OSGi testing frameworks.
    * Mike Mueller was granted write access to our wiki as a "documentation
committer", iCLA on file.
    * In general, steadily increasing community activity with more
contributions, discussions and patches. Mailing list stats
(http://people.apache.org/~coar/mlists.html) also show a steady increase in
subscribers, now at 130 subscribers and average of 17 posts/day on the sling
dev list (there's no user list at the moment).

Software

    * Sling 5 has been released as of May, 13th, 2009.
    * Continuous integration builds have been activated on
hudson.zones.apache.org.

Issues before graduation

    * Sustained activity from at least two non-Day committers, along with
the new release and increased community interest and engagement, seems to
indicate that Sling should graduate soon.

Licensing and other issues

    * none


= SocialSite =

SocialSite is an open source Social Networking Service based on Apache
Shindig (incubating). The software is not simply a "canned" Social Network
or Facebook-in-a-box type of web application; it's something different.
SocialSite is designed to add social networking features to existing web
applications and web sites. SocialSite is made up of two parts: 1) a social
data server that supports the OpenSocial APIs and extensions and 2) a set of
OpenSocial gadgets that provide a complete user-interface for social
networking.

SocialSite is in the process of entering the incubator. Status page and SVN
space have been created but no user accounts. Committers are sending in
ICLAs and we're waiting on Sun to deliver the code grant.


= Stonehenge =

Stonehenge has been incubating since December 2008. Stonehenge a set of
example applications for Service Oriented Architecture that spans languages
and platforms and demonstrates best practices and interoperability by using
currently defined W3C OASIS standard protocols.

In the month of April, the growing Stonehenge community has been very active
delivering on fixes for the PHP, Java and .NET implementations of a sample
app called stocktrader. Stocktrader is meant to be the first sample app that
demonstrates interoperability in Stonehenge.

Admin: The community is still learning the ropes of apache processes. A PPMC
is currently being setup to allow the nomination of several active
developers. Legal headers and logos have been updated in all code bases to
reflect Apache's brand. All code bases now pass the RAT tool.

Community: Two new developers have joined. The current community has
intensified its effort around enabling a smooth installation experience of
the sample apps. Documentation has  been authored and iterated upon.

Code: The community has identified and resolved many fixes towards the first
release. The first release, which is being voted on right now, is aimed
towards producing code and docs that enable a smooth interop experience
between the .NET, PHP and Java implementations of the StockTrader
application.

Graduation map:
 * M1 should be released any day now.
 * Another iteration of improvements for stocktraded would constitute the
second release (M2)
 * A third release would be either adding more interop functionality to
stocktrader, or implementing a new sample application - M3


Neither M2 or M3 are discussed yet. As soon as M1 is complete the community
will discuss options for releases.


= VCL =

VCL has been incubating since December 2008. VCL is a framework for cloud
management of physical and virtual machines.

Project Name:
 * Discussion about using the name VCL has continued but the issue has not
been resolved.
 * A question was posed on the legal discussion list regarding the use of
the VCL name A response was givin indicating that NCSU should make it
obvious that both the VCL name and code are donated to the ASF.
 * NCSU is working to make it obvious on its website that VCL is developed
at the ASF.
 * The development community is working to remove references to NCSU from
the VCL code.
 * More guidance is required from the project mentors or others from ASF in
order to resolve this issue.

Development:
 * Code development has continued and many commits have been made to the ASF
VCL repository.
 * The vcl-dev list is actively being used to discuss development issues.
 * The Jira issue system is being used for tracking and to plan the first
release.

Release Preparation:
 * The development community is researching the ASF release process.
 * Work is being done to complete a few Jira issues before creating release.

Documentation:
 * The community decided to use a Confluence wiki for the project
documentation.
 * Work has been done to organize project documentation.
 * Documentation is actively being contributed to wiki.
 * Questions were asked of the mentors regarding the rules governing wiki
contributions from individuals who have not signed the CLA. It is the
community's understanding that a separate wiki will be needed - one for
official documentation included with releases and one containing
contributions from individual who have not signed the CLA.
 * A request has been made to one of the mentors who had offered to create a
2nd wiki instance.

= WSRP4J =

Did not report.  Still tied on on IP issues, we believe.


= XAP =

Advice of the Mentors is that there is no activity, and it should likely be
suspended.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

=== Status ===

It has been a while since I reported the last time. In june 2008 I announced
that I wanted to be replaced because of time constraints, with no one
volunteering. After that however I got caught up with what was happening in my
personal life and also was shutdown for over 3 months, which ended up in a
long period of silence.
Now all major personal events (positive I might add, so please don't worry)
have passed, I however still find myself fighting to find time (and energy) to
spend at Apache.

In the light of this, I hand in my resignation as VP Apache Jakarta.
To my relief a discussion about the (in reality already effective) vacancy
started and some people stood up to volunteer to take over the position.

I myself regret the long absence and silence and I hope it didn't cause to 
much worry and problems.


=== Releases ===

Not to my knowledge

=== Subproject news ===

==== BCEL ====

==== BSF ====

Did a 3.0 beta3 release to fix a bug for a user. Otherwise very quiet.

==== Cactus ====

==== ECS ====

==== JCS ====

==== JMeter ====

Lots of fixes and incremental improvements have been made to the JMeter code

JMeter 2.3.3 RC1 just has been submitted for community approval.

==== ORO ====

==== Regexp ====

==== Taglibs ====

Standard Taglib (implementation of JSTL) migrated to Maven2.

==== Retired Projects ====
''Slide''


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Governance
Rudolf Korhummel was voted into the Lenya PMC.

Code
A new connector/plugin for XML editor (Firedocs) was donated and
integrated with Lenya 2.0

Community
We started a blog at http://blogs.apache.org/lenya/

Legal
No issues to report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Logging Services Project

- Community

The log4php project was rebooted in late April.  Gavin McDonald
and Niclas Hedhman are new mentors and Gavin and Christian
Grobmeier were added as committers.

- Development

log4j 1.2:

Minimal development activity, usage question most every day on the
mailing list.  log4j 1.2.16 even longer overdue.

log4j 2.0:

log4j 2.0 (the proposed rearchitecting of log4j targeting Java 5
and using current best practices) has not seen any development
in a year or so.

log4cxx:

Minimal development activity, infrequent usage questions on
mailing list.

log4net:

Limited development activity, usage question every week or so.
Some discussion about preparing a new release.

log4php:

Rebooted last month.  There had been previous discussions on
general@incubator and in board reports, but was unable to find
a call for a vote or any other process leading to the reboot.

Chainsaw:

A few patches this period.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

mod_perl 1.31 was released 12 May 2009.  This release addresses
several minor platform-specific issues, as well as CVE-2009-0796.

--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

No new mod_perl 2.x releases since the last report.

--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

No new Apache-Test releases since the last report.

--- Apache-SizeLimit --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.  It is used to kill off large httpd child processes
based on various environmental triggers.

No new Apache-SizeLimit releases since the last report.

--- Apache-Bootstrap --

Apache-Bootstrap is a framework to make it easier to build perl
module distributions for different mod_perl versions.  It encapsulates
code developed over the years by mod_perl developers to make
maintaining Apache::* and Apache2::* modules in the same distribution easy.

Apache-Bootstrap 0.06 was released on March 30, 2009.

--- Apache-Reload --

Apache-Reload is a popular component in most mod_perl development
environments, used to refresh compiled code in the perl interpreter
without completely restarting httpd.

No new Apache-Reload releases since the last report.

-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be a healthy development community, though
as a mature and stable product development moves at a naturally
slower pace than in years past.  Bugs are found and discussed and
applied with due consideration for our production userbase.

-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.

-- PMC --

The honourable Adam Prime was added to the PMC on April 4, 2009.
Additionally, there was a brief flurry of activity surrounding
CVE-2009-0796.  No other noteworthy events happened during this
quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache POI Project

Community
---------
A vote is currently in progress about a new committer, Mark Beardsley, which
looks set to pass. Yegor has kindly agreed to mentor Mark.

We are continuing to keep an eye out for other potential new committers, as
we recognise the need to keep drawing in fresh blood, but no others have
been identified so far.

Traffic on the dev list has been slightly down this quarter, but traffic on
the user list is up. Bug report numbers seem about steady, but are tending
to be for more obscure areas of the code, which is a good sign for the
quality of the core of the library, but that nothing's ever perfect!

The POI talk at ApacheCon EU was well attended for a Friday afternoon slot,
and there was a lot of interest in the new features we were discussing,
which is always nice. Unfortunately the BoF was rather thinly attended. We
are hoping to get a large portion of the current committers to ApacheCon US,
especially if some of the more far-flung ones can get their talks accepted,
and hence get help towards travel costs.

Releases
--------
No new POI 3.2 releases this quarter, and discussions about doing a 3.2.1
release with a few key bug fixes failed to attact enough interest to drive
one forward.

Work on POI 3.5 continues with another beta release, but there are still too
many open bugs to consider a FINAL release just yet. However, most of these
remaining bugs are in areas that don't overly affect the most active
committers, which is perhaps why no-one has found the time to squash them so
far...


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

This is Roller's quarterly board report for May 2009. It covers community
health, status of our most recent release, work that has been done in the
trunk and plans for new work.


Status of work in the trunk

(Unchanged since last report) Below are the changes in the trunk since the
last major release. In December 2008, Dave Johnson proposed that the next
 major release of Roller include these changes, enchanced Media Blogging,
cluster-friendly search and upgrades to the latest Struts and OpenJPA
releases.

* We added a new fully pluggable user management system and better support
for contributed by Dave Johnson working on Sun's social software for
Glassfish efforts.

* Our Google Summer of Code student has completed OpenID support, using
Spring Security to do. We are currently evaluating the final patch.

* Dave Johnson started working on upgrading from OpenJPA 0.9.7 to
OpenJPA 1.0 but ran in to problems and has committed none of this work.

* Allen Gilliland contributed his most recent code for Apache Roller
Planet, from his work on planets.sun.com. This is a separate application
from the Apache Roller Weblogger and has not yet been released.


Media Blogging work is complete and ready for trunk

Two San Jose State University (SJSU) students, Ganesh Mathrubootham and
Tanuja Varkanthe, have completed a two-semester project to improve
Roller's Media Blogging features. This includes better management of media
files images, video and audio files, new user interfaces for browsing and
selecting media files and more. They've been doing extensive work on
the Roller wiki to create a proposal and detailed design for this work.

We are preparing to merge this work into the Roller trunk during May 2009.


Community health

Status here is mostly unchanged since last report. The community is doing
well, but our committers are definitely not as active as they were in the
past and we need some new blood.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Turbine Project

Status
======

The Turbine project has as usual seen fairly low levels of activity in
the last quarter.

The Turbine project has no board-level issues at this time.

Community changes
=================

No new committers were voted in since the last board report.

No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.

Turbine core project
====================

Apart from the release below there has not been a great deal of activity
for Turbine this quarter.

No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

Fulcrum component project
=========================

There has been god progress on migrating the build process to Maven 2, we
are starting the process of releasing new versions of each of the
non-sandbox components.

Releases this quarter:
 * fulcrum-yaafi-crypto 1.0.6 was released on 31 March 2009.
 * fulcrum-yaafi 1.0.6 was released on 4 May 2009.

META project
============

No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Tuscany Project

Apache Tuscany is an SOA framework based on OASIS OpenCSA. It is
now one year since Tuscany graduated from the Incubator.

Since that last board report two new PMC members have been voted on
to the PMC , Wojtek Janiszewski, Haleh Mahbod. There have been no
new committers. There have been two release, 2.0 M1, 2.0 M2, along
with several associated maven plugin releases. A 1.5 release is
expected this month and another 2.0 milestone release next month.
There are four GSoC students working on Tuscany projects.

Mailing list traffic on both the dev and user lists continues to
be strong, although we still struggle with how to get more users
replying to other user questions.

The Tuscany website has been updated to include a Google Analytics
Privacy policy disclaimer as requested.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

The Apache Velocity project continues it's slow but steady development
effort in what was a fairly typical quarter for this mature project.

Community
- We continue to have a small core of active committers and several
frequent contributors
- User list traffic remains steady with 1-2 messages per day, all
answered quickly.

Velocity Engine
- In March 2009 we released Apache Velocity 1.6.2, a bug fix release
addressing several regression issues with Velocity 1.6.
- A new svn trunk for version 2.0 has been opened up.  While full
scope is yet to be determined, the initial intent is to offer
incremental improvements without the ball-and-chain of perfect
backwards compatibility

Velocity Tools
- The Velocity Tools sub-project is in the midst of a vote for a
2.0-beta4 release.   We anticipate a full 2.0 release in the coming
quarter.

The Velocity project currently has no board-level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

There have been no releases this quarter for Xalan-C or Xalan-J. There
has been a small to moderate amount of activity on the project's mailing
lists. Several posters have inquired about participating in the project
and were encouraged to develop and submit patches as an initial task to
becoming active committers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

Xerces-J was fortunate again to be awarded one Google Summer of Code
project for 2009. Starting this month Richard Kelly (the new student)
will be working on support for Unicode normalization checking and
normalization.

In March and April we elected two new committers: Hiranya Jayathilaka
and Mukul Gandhi. Hiranya was our Google Summer of Code (GSoC) student
for 2008 and has continued to be active on the project by helping with
the XML Schema 1.1 effort. Mukul has been one of the more active
developers lately, completing the bulk of the support for XML Schema
1.1 assertions and getting it to work with both the Eclipse
(a.k.a. Psychopath) and Saxon XPath 2.0 processors. With these
contributions we're now getting close to a point where we could have a
preview release containing features from the XML Schema 1.1 working
drafts.

In the last few months there were a couple interesting threads on the
development mailing list. The first was regarding the number of XML
Schema APIs around the ASF (in particular the ones in Xerces and
WS-Commons) and whether the projects could converge on a common
API. After this discussion it became quite clear these APIs serve
different use cases and that there is indeed value in maintaining
these as separate efforts. The second thread was a revival of the
discussion on moving up to Java 5 for its language features and class
library enhancements. The current thought is to create a branch for
Java 5 development and have dual releases targeted for Java 1.3 and
5. This would allow users on Java 1.3 and 1.4 to continue getting this
support, while providing an optimized version for users on Java 5 and
6. We plan to consult with the user community again before making any
decisions on this front. 

Xerces-C

Xerces-C++ 3.0.1 was released on February 19th. Since then it's been
moderately busy on the mailing lists though fairly quiet on the
development front.

Xerces-P

Nothing in particular to report. There was no development activity
over the reporting period. 

XML Commons

In XML Commons External a few bug fixes and improvements were applied
to the JAXP 1.3 and 1.4 branches. Nothing else notable to report. 

General

Gareth has again expressed his intent to step down as PMC chair. We
plan to start the process for selecting a new one. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache XML Project

No business requiring board attention from the XML PMC, other than the
usual issue of AxKit being AWOL. To that extent an initial ping has
been sent to the Attic to solve the AxKit issue once and for all
(although it's somewhat worrisome that no one from the XML PMC or the
Attic PMC cared to comment on it).

XIndice
======
This quarter, Gump got to the task of building Xindice for the first
time in the last 3 years. After sorting out issues with dependencies,
Xindice was successfully built by Gump.
Everything else is as usual: Xindice 1.2 is in maintenance; no
development happened on 1.3 during this quarter; all emails to the
user list are answered promptly.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments

A serious conflict broke out between two major developers of FOP. The
focus of the conflict was code quality. One developer insists on more
effort to extract common behaviour and to add abstraction. He feels that
this will make the code easier to maintain, that these features are
currently lacking in FOP's code, and that this makes it hard for new
contributors to enter. The other developer feels that this will require
more time and effort than he can put into the code, and that the
requirements are too theoretical and not compatible with his way of
thinking about the implementation of new functionality. Examples of
discussions can be found in the archives of the fop-dev email list in
February and March. Initially the conflict was resolved by mediation of
another FOP developer. Unfortunately, the emotional damage was not
restored, and Jeremias Maerki decided to step down as chairman of the XML
Graphics PMC and take a timeout from FOP. This is certainly a great loss
for the project.

Simon Pepping was elected by the PMC to be the successor. A resolution
for the change has been submitted to the board (see mail to board@).

XML Graphics Commons

No releases, no major changes, just a few improvements and fixes in
various components.

Batik

Same as last time: Not much going on. A little bugfixing and code
cleanup. Activity on the users mailing list seems stable. One
contributor is working through past issues in Bugzilla to make the
uncommitted patches in there more visible and to get another pair of
eyes on them.

FOP

The 1.0 beta release we discussed during the previous quarter hasn't
happened, yet.

Research for an improved approach at page breaking is making progress.

We've received a major patch from a contributor that adds Tagged PDF
support to Apache FOP. This has been processed and the code is available
in a development branch. After that support for PDF/A-1a has been added
based on this new functionality. The branch is largely ready to be
merged back but this hasn't happened, yet.

Besides that we've seen a steady stream of bugfixes and minor new
features, a small number of patches, too. The user mailing lists
activity seems steady.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: ASF budget for FY May 1 2009 - Apr 30 2010

The following are projected and still under review.

INCOME (projected)

== Interest ==
Interest income              :   $3,200.00

== Public donations ==
  One-Time (by chk, etc)     :   $2,400.00
  PayPal ($2000 x 12 mos)    :  $24,000.00
  Car Program LLC            :   $1,600.00
    ($400 x 4 contributions)
Category total               :  $28,000.00

== Sponsorship Program ==

  Platinum sponsors (3)      : $300,000.00
  Gold sponsors (3)          : $120,000.00
  Silver sponsors (3)        :  $60,000.00
  Bronze sponsors (4)        :  $20,000.00

Category total               : $500,000.00

== Program Income ==
Google Summer of Code        :  $10,000.00

Category Total               :  $10,000.00

== Unrelated Business Income (royalty, licenses, etc.) ==

Category Total               :       $0.00

Income Category Summaries:

  Interest Income           : $  3,200.00
  One-time donations        : $ 28,000.00
  Sponsorship Program       : $500,000.00
  Program Income            : $ 10,000.00
  Unrelated Business Income : $      0.00

INCOME Total                : $541,200.00

EXPENSES

== Fundraising Overhead ==

Sponsorship Dir                 : $30,000.00
PayPal (@ ~ 3.74%)              :    $100.00
Car Program LLC                 :     $ 0.00

Category Total                  : $30,100.00

== Administrative ==

Exec. Assistant/SA Staff        : $60,000.00
Office Supplies (EA)            :  $1,000.00
Office Supplies (Sec'y)         :    $500.00
Office Supplies (Treasurer)     :    $500.00
Equipment (EA)                  :  $1,500.00
Office Expenses (EA)            :  $1,500.00
Travel (EA)                     :  $5,000.00
President Discretionary         :  $5,000.00

Category Total                  : $75,000.00

== Infrastructure ==

SysAdmin (FT)                   : $72,000.00
SysAdmin (PT)                   : $30,000.00
Hosting - OSU OSL (OR, USA)     :      $0.00
Hosting - SURFnet (AMS, NL)     :      $0.00
Hosting - Traci.net (FL, USA)   :  $6,216.00
Hardware - Replacement          : $10,000.00
Hardware - Expansion            : $10,000.00
Hardware - Build farm           : $15,000.00
Hardware - Service contracts    :  $5,000.00
Spamhaus RBL                    :    $300.00
SSL / DNS renewals              :    $700.00
Travel (FT & PT @ AC's)         :  $8,000.00

Category Total                  :$157,216.00

== Publicity ==

Outside PR Services             : $65,000.00
Collateral Printing             :  $2,000.00
Press releases (prepaid)        :  $5,000.00
Sponsor outreach                :  $3,000.00
Travel                          :  $7,000.00

Category Total                  : $82,000.00

== Travel Assistance Committee ==

Sponsored Attendees (Need Based): $40,000.00

Category Total                  : $40,000.00

== Legal ==

Discretionary                   :  $2,500.00

Category Total                  :  $2,500.00

== Board ==

Chairman Discretionary          :  $5,000.00
Conference Calls                :      $0.00

Category Total                  :  $5,000.00

== Banking Fees == (need to be reviewed)

Checks                          :  $  150.00
Safe-deposit box                :  $   75.00
Monthly fees                    :  $1,000.00
Lockbox                         :  $2,500.00

Category Total                  :  $3,725.00

== Treasury Services ==

Tax Filing                      :  $2,000.00
Online services                 :  $1,500.00

Category Total                  :  $3,500.00

== Licenses / Insurance ==

Corp. Service Co. (DE Agent)    :  $  299.00
D&O Insurance                   :  $1,500.00
Property/Asset Insurance        :  $1,000.00
Misc. Insurance                 :  $2,201.00

Category Total                  :  $5,000.00

== Shipping == (need to confirm)

Federal Express / Courier       :    $500.00

Category Total                  :    $500.00

== Misc. ==

Category Total                  :      $0.00

Expense Category Summaries:
  Fundraising overhead          :$ 30,100.00
  Administrative                :$ 75,000.00
  Infrastructure                :$157,216.00
  Publicity                     :$ 82,000.00
  Travel Assistance             :$ 40,000.00
  Legal                         :$  2,500.00
  Board                         :$  5,000.00
  Banking Fees                  :$  3,725.00
  Accounting Services           :$  3,500.00
  Licenses / Insurance          :$  5,000.00
  Shipping                      :$    500.00
  Misc                          :$      0.00
Expense Total                   :$404,541.00

=== SUMMARY ===

Income Total                 : $541,200.00
Expense Total                : $404,541.00

Net Total                    :+$136,659.00

=== PUBLIC SUPPORT TEST ===

  Interest Income            : $  3,200.00
  One-time donations         : $ 28,000.00
  Sponsorship Program        : $500,000.00
  Eligible income            : $531,200.00

  2% support test            :  $10,624.00 / donor

  One-time donations         :  $28,000.00
  Bronze Sponsors (4)        :  $20,000.00
  Silver Sponsors (3)        :  $31,872.00
  Gold Sponsors (3)          :  $31,872.00
  Platinum Sponsors (3)      :  $31,872.00
  Public Donations Total     : $143,616.00

  Public Support             :     27.04%

Legend:

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the May 20, 2009 board meeting.
