                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            July 21, 2010


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 11:00am (Pacific) and began at
    11:01 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Noirin Shirley
        Greg Stein
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Officers Present:

        Justin Erenkrantz
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Brian Fox
        Craig L Russell

    Officers Absent:

        Philip M. Gollucci
        Sander Striker

    Guests:

        Brett Porter

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Published minutes can be found at:

        http://www.apache.org/foundation/board/calendar.html

    A. The meeting of June 16, 2010

       See: board_minutes_2010_06_16.txt

       Tabled.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       The big news regarding the foundation over the last month is, of
       course, the members meeting which was held last week (via IRC).
       Of 34 new member nominees, 31 were elected in. They are currently
       being contacted in order to offer them membership to the ASF.
       Also at the meeting, the 9 slots for directors were filled.
       We have 5 returning directors from last year (Shane, Doug, Roy,
       Jim and Greg), 3 returning directors from previous years (Bertrand,
       Sam and Henri) and one "totally" new director, Noirin. Noirin
       is also noteworthy for being our first female director.
       
       Welcome to the new board and the new members. And a note of great
       appreciation for our outgoing directors and officers.
       
       Attendance at last weeks meeting was quite high, making attendance
       quorum with quite some room to spare. The percentage of members
       who voted was also high, averaging around 50%, with the board
       election garnering 63% participation. No doubt, the creation of
       the web front end GUI to the voting tool was a significant factor
       in this. Thanks again to JoeS and infra.
       
       I spoke yesterday (Tuesday) at the US Library of Congress in a
       panel discussion regarding Open Source and Open Source Communities.
       The community aspect of the ASF, and how we build and maintain
       highly dispersed but also highly functional communities was a 
       specific item of interest at the event.
       
       The foundation is healthy and active.

       Re: Executive Officer appointments. I am more that willing to remain
       on-board as Chairman. Last year, there was also some interest in
       me taking on the task of President instead of Chairman, and I'm
       more than willing to do that as well... whatever spot the board
       would like to fill.
       
    B. President [Justin]

       Verbal report: nothing to report since the members meeting
       last week; Justin is at OSCON this week coordinating with
       Sandy. Greg is meeting with the Register tomorrow (backfilling for
       Justin).

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2010-07-13.  Current balances are
      total cash of $545,600.31 at Wells Fargo and $26,895.61 at PayPal.  
      Transactions since 7/13 include ~$10k down payment for TAC travel, a
      $4,500 payment for PR Newswire, $13k to Dell, and a $1.3k travel payment
      for Sally to OSCON.

      Contributions:
       Lockbox checks totaled $40,250 ($20K to be accrued in July)

      Tasks Done:
       - all approved bills paid. 
       - wired GBP 7,000 to UK travel agency for TAC

      In Progress:
       - preparation for FY2010 US Tax filing.  Still working on QB but 
         CPA and I are active on this 

      To Do:
       - need to start gathering CC receipts from CC holders. E.g ACON09

      Please note that the following statements are going to be different than
      the data reported in last week's member's meeting.  The statements for 
      the monthly board report are for the previous calendar month, so they
      end on June 30, 2010.  The data reported in the members meeting was
      up to the day of the member's meeting for the previous year.

      Also, I'm happy to continue as Treasurer of the ASF.

          Statement of Financial Income and Expense - June 2010

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                           93.86 
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                    250.00 
              Total Contributions Income                               250.00

           Total Income                                                343.86

           Expense
              President Discretionary                                1,376.00
              Bank Service Charges                                     307.08
              Licenses and Permits                                     -30.00
              Postage and Delivery                                      19.95
              Professional Fees
                Accounting                                      226.50 
              Total Professional Fees                                  226.50 

              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                    518.00 
                   Infrastructure Staff                12,500.00
                Total Infrastructure                         13,018.00

                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                           1,404.69
                   Public Relations Staff              20,000.00
                Total Public Relations                       21,404.69

              Total Program Expenses                                34,422.69

           Total Expense                                            36,322.22

        Net Ordinary Income                                        -35,978.36

     Net Income                                                    -35,978.36



        Statement of Financial Position - As of June 30, 2010

                                                  Jun 30, 10    Jun 30, 09     $ Change      % Change
     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
              PayPal                                12,513.63     12,394.81        118.82          1.0%
              Wells Fargo Analyzed Account         250,627.14    120,018.91    130,608.23        108.8%
              Wells Fargo Savings                  285,551.50    284,171.69      1,379.81          0.5%
           Total Checking/Savings                  548,692.27    416,585.41    132,106.86         31.7%

           Accounts Receivable
              Accounts Receivable                  100,000.00     70,000.00     30,000.00         42.9%
           Total Accounts Receivable               100,000.00     70,000.00     30,000.00         42.9%

        Total Current Assets                       648,692.27    486,585.41    162,106.86         33.3%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                  648,692.27    486,585.41    162,106.86         33.3%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
              Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                  23.30         39.90        -16.60        -41.6%
                ASF Credit Card - Striker            3,215.90          0.00      3,215.90        100.0%
              Total Credit Cards                     3,239.20         39.90      3,199.30      8,018.3%

           Total Current Liabilities                 3,239.20         39.90      3,199.30      8,018.3%

        Total Liabilities                            3,239.20         39.90      3,199.30      8,018.3%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                       616,490.28    363,648.74    252,841.54         69.5%
           Net Income                               28,962.79    122,896.77    -93,933.98        -76.4%
        Total Equity                               645,453.07    486,545.51    158,907.56         32.7%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                    648,692.27    486,585.41    162,106.86         33.3%


    D. Secretary [Sam]

       Posting and drafting of minutes are both up to date.

       There is one document in Bills/received that need to be approved
       or otherwise disposed of relating to marketing and publicity.

       Some OSCON Marketing and Publicity expenses will be charged to the
       secretary's credit card (i.e., mine).  This is likely to be a one-time
       occurrence; in the future this will likely be once again handled by
       the president.

       I've automated the processing of scanned/faxed/emailed member
       applications, and this is already showing improved productivity.
       Verification of PGP signatures is still a labor intensive effort.

       I've had the first occurrence in a long time of an ICLA not being
       promptly filed, the culprit was a snail mail pair of documents that I
       had placed in the wrong pile; a quick set of emails and this was
       promptly resolved.  In all, things have been going very smoothly, due
       the combination of Craig's help and the investments in automation.

       When it becomes time to name officers for the next calendar year, it is
       my wish that Craig and I swap the secretary/assistance secretary roles.
       Craig supports this suggestion.

    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       No report received.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Greg]

       See Attachment 3

       Greg to update Serge on corporate purchases, merges, acquisitions and
       leads for new contacts.

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Shane]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Jim]

       See Attachment 7

       Missing data presumed to be a calendar skew (different starts of month);
       Jim to verify.

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley / Doug]

       See Attachment 8

       Several directors expressed concern about $225/person+TAC
       costs for an individual meeting, such is not sustainable.
       
       Noirin clarified that they are experimenting with alternatives
       as there is no ApacheCon Europe; costs are running well under
       budget.
       
       Noirin will take this into consideration for future events.

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Justin]

       See Attachment 9

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Henri]

       See Attachment 10

       The Conference Planning concerns also applied here; Gavin addressed
       them adequately.

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Sam]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Attic Project [Henri Yandell / Noirin]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Avro Project [Matt Massie / Roy]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache CXF Project [J. Daniel Kulp / Bertrand]

       See Attachment D

       Daniel clarified that the third student didn't want an account.

    E. Apache DB Project [Rick Hillegas / Roy]

       See Attachment E

       Shane to inquire as to whether the torque committer is a PMC member and
       ask for a more specific Attic plan by next report.

    F. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Noirin]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Geronimo Project [Kevan Miller / Shane]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Hadoop Project [Owen O'Malley / Henri]

       See Attachment H

       Noirin reminded the PMC to let ConCom know when there are events going
       on in their community, even if the PMC is not the one organizing them.

    I. Apache HBase Project [Michael Stack / Greg]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache HttpComponents Project [Erik Abele / Jim]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Bertrand]

       See Attachment K

       Bertrand to suggest forwarding on Olio and Empire-db requests to
       Marketing and Publicity.

       Sam to request that SocialSite provide plans (dates and owner) to
       address the problem identified.

    L. Apache Jakarta Project [Rahul Akolkar / Sam]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache JAMES Project [Norman Maurer / Doug]

       See Attachment M

       Jim complemented the project on the format of their report.

    N. Apache Karaf Project [Guillaume Nodet / Greg]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache Mahout Project [Sean Owen / Bertrand]

       See Attachment O

       Jim complemented the project on the format of their report.

    P. Apache Maven Project [Brian Fox / Jim]

       See Attachment P

       Brian confirmed that there is no new committers.

    Q. Apache MINA Project [Niklas Gustavsson / Doug]

       See Attachment Q

       Jim complemented the project on the format of their report.

       Doug to notify MINA that there is no need to pull old releases simply
       because they contained LPGL-licensed content, and will copy
       legal-discuss so as to encourage a FAQ entry to be created.

    R. Apache MyFaces Project [Matthias Wessendorf / Sam]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Nutch Project [Andrzej Bialecki / Noirin]

       See Attachment S

       Jim complemented the project on the format of their report.

    T. Apache ODE Project [Matthieu Riou / Henri]

       See Attachment T

       Jim noted with pleasure the "new blood" comment.

    U. Apache OpenEJB Project [David Blevins / Shane]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache OpenJPA Project [Craig Russell / Roy]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache PDFBox Project [Andreas Lehmkühler / Henri]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Shindig Project [Paul Lindner / Greg]

       See Attachment X

       Jim congratulated Paul on being elected to the OpenSocial Board.

    Y. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Noirin]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Bertrand]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Jim]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Tika Project [Chris A. Mattmann / Shane]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Traffic Server Project [Leif Hedstrom / Roy]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Sam]

       Postponed to next meeting by request.

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Change the Apache ODE Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Matthieu
       Riou to the office of Vice President, Apache ODE, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Matthieu Riou from the office of Vice President, Apache ODE,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache ODE
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Tammo van Lessen as the
       successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Matthieu Riou is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache ODE, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Tammo van Lessen be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache ODE, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7A, Change the Apache ODE Project Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


    B. Change the Apache HttpComponents Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Erik Abele
       to the office of Vice President, Apache HttpComponents, and

       WHEREAS, in the continued absence of Erik Abele, the Project
       Management Committee of the Apache HttpComponents project has
       chosen to recommend Asankha Perera as the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Erik Abele is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache HttpComponents, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Asankha Perera be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache HttpComponents, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7B, Change the Apache HttpComponents Project
       Chair, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.


    C. Change the Apache Attic Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Henri
       Yandell to the office of Vice President, Apache Attic, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Henri Yandell from the office of Vice President, Apache Attic,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Attic
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Gianugo Rabellino as the
       successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Henri Yandell is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Attic, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Gianugo Rabellino be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Attic, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7C, Change the Apache Attic Project Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


 8. Discussion Items

    A. Executive Officer appointments process and timeline.
    
       Shane suggests we define the process at July meeting; work on board@ 
       to find any potential candidates/discuss issues; vote on appointments 
       at August meeting.

       Candidates identified to date:

         1. Chairman: 
            Jim Jagielski
            Sam Ruby

         2. President: 
            Jim Jagielski
            Sam Ruby

         3. Secretary: 
            Craig L Russell

         4. Asst. Secretary: 
            Sam Ruby

         5. Treasurer:
            Geir Magnusson, Jr.

         6. Asst Treasurer:
            ???

         7. Executive Vice President:
            Greg Stein

    Jim to split to a separate slate of candidates into a separate file
    and notify members, encouraging members to volunteer for any slot with
    the exception of Chair.
    
    B. Hiring EA - discuss and appoint new Admin search chair to drive
    
       Unless the new board chooses to not hire an EA, we need to appoint 
       someone to drive the process (as Sander is not able currently).
       
       Consensus is that EA need not be a member or committer. Most don't
       see this as important, Henri suggests that it might actually be
       better to hire from a non-committer.
    
       Jim to start the process of hiring an EA based on the job
       description that Sander produced.
    
    C. Appointing a General Counsel / Organizing Legal Affairs
    
       To better utilize our pro bono counsel time, there is a suggestion 
       to appoint a General Counsel to better manage legal questions.
       The suggestion is that Larry Rosen be appointed, and he has
       already indicated that he would be most willing to accept.
    
      Some concern about establishing a General Counsel, significantly
      less concern about having Larry simply replace VP, Legal Affairs
      roles. Larry would like to see VP, Legal Affairs continue. What
      Larry wants to stop is people going to different lawyers and getting
      different answers. What the board wants is to have a VP Legal
      Affairs setting policy, and the General Counsel be tasked with
      implementing and coordinating the execution of those policies.
    
    D. New Monthly Board Meeting time
       
    Start time for meeting OK for everyone?  We could move it anywhere from
    zero to three hours earlier in the day.

    Survey of directors normal time zones:

      +1 CET - CH    - Bertrand Delacretaz
      +1 CET - CH    - Noirin Shirley
      -5 EST - US MA - Shane Curcuru
      -5 EST - US MD - Jim Jagielski
      -5 EST - US NC - Sam Ruby
      -5 EST - US VA - Greg Stein
      -8 PST - US CA - Doug Cutting
      -8 PST - US CA - Roy Fielding
      -8 PST - US WA - Henri Yandell

      -5 EST - US MD   Philip M. Gollucci

       Discussion deferred to board@.

    E. Planning Potential F2F Board meeting 
    
       If we want to repeat last year's great F2F, when/where?

       F2F: rough plan, early September in Boston, will continue discussion
       on with a Doodle poll.  Officers will be allowed to attend, but will
       are unlikely to get any travel assistance.
    
    New meeting time item tabled.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Roy:    Update /dev with rule that invitation only dev meetings are OK,
              provided that such meetings are discussed on the dev list, and
              that all committers are included.
	      Not done.

    * Roy:    Suggest that Abdera recruit on the Atom lists.
	      Not done.

    * Roy:    To convey to Lenya the board's expectations for the contents of
              the community section of board reports.
	      Not done.

    * Geir:   Invoice Google for GSOC
	      Not done.

    * Sam:    Investigate Xalan licensing dispute.
              Not done.
    
    * Greg:   Pursue a report for HttpComponents.
              Done

    * Sam:    Resolve the NTLM action item for the Incubator.
	      Not done.

    * Doug:   Initiate a discussion as to what items the board should
              periodically request be included in reports (example: diversity)
              to the mailing list. (Original context: JackRabbit)
              Infrastructure section
	      Philip volunteers to help.

    * Shane:  Send a note to Apache Labs re: possibility of internal outreach
              or assistance by Community Development.
              Done

    * Greg:   Pursue a report for Nutch.
              Done

    * Doug:   Communicate the need to address the question of xml-security vs
              Santuario for all the resources, and the fact that board reports
              are public.
	      Doug to follow up.

    * Shane:  Follow up with Velocity to suggest moving subproject to the
              Attic.
              Done: Velocity indicated that the project is still active.

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

    http://www.oscon.com/oscon2010/public/content/2010/07/20-os-awards:
    Greg received an award for his contributions to Python, ASF and
    Subversion.

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 12:18 p.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

There is nothing new to report - Oracle continues its internal
discussion and review of the JCP and their plans for it and
the Java community, and incorporated in that is the discussion
over Apache's Java SE TCK request.  There may or may not be 
a JCP conference call today (Tuesday, July 20).

I spent a few minutes with Paul Krill of Infoworld providing 
an overview and update of the situation with Oracle and 
with the broader Java ecosystem in general.

The internal JCP TCK support system is working well.  We 
have one outstanding license request to Oracle, but at the
moment, their lawyers don't appear to be looking at them.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

No board-level issues noted.

Operations And Community
========================

Apache Project Branding Guidelines will be updated with minor 
clarifications based on feedback from trademarks@ and introduced 
to pmcs@ in the next month.

Process of registering the "Apache" mark is in progress with 
counsel; I will follow up to see what updates to the main website 
are needed to reflect the status.

VP, Subversion is working to formalize the previous "Subversion" 
trademark agreements made by Subversion Corp. previously with various 
organizations to reflect the assignment (and now management) of 
those marks to/by the ASF.


External Requests
=================

We received and replied to several questions about potential fraud 
using the Apache name.  Apparently an organization in India has been 
using a number of variations of "Project Apache" or "Apache Project" 
either to sell software or as some sort of money making scheme. 
Several users emailed various lists at the ASF asking "Is this you?".
I've replied to each noting that the ASF does not have a relationship
with that organization; that our software is always available for 
free; and that only information at apache.org is official ASF policy.

trademarks@ will be investigating reporting the offending domain names 
as infringing to their webhosts, and may ask legal-internal@ for 
further advice in dealing with this issue.

Work continues with several organizations to correct infringements 
of our marks in association with websites and several products.  
While we need to ensure that our marks are respected, for 
organizations that show a willingness to improve, we should be 
cognizant that changes sometimes take time to complete.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

I've had another month where I did not accomplish much for a variety of
reasons.  I will thank Sally and Greg, who have been jumping in with
sponsors when urgent issues come up, and Geir for helping out with oddball
requests as I figure out process.  I also appreciate the sponsor highlight
at the end of the member's meeting.  That was great.

Things should get more productive going forward.

SPONSORSHIP

AMD is processing paperwork as a new gold sponsor, which took longer on
their end than expected.  They have blogged about it and I plan to announce
internally once we're close.  Have discussed buying some hardware with
infrastructure, but asked them to hold off until the check arrives.

Matt Mullenweg and HP paid as renewing sponsors.

I have not done needed work on invoicing... of the non-bronze sponsors, Iona
(I believe) is overdue for an invoice, and I need to understand the
situation with Covalent.  MSFT has been discussed, Google/HP/FB/Basis have
paid, Yahoo to be invoiced in September.  The bronze sponsors have not been
reviewed.

I'm still not doing enough to engage the sponsors, and OSCON put that into
focus.  I was late realizing this as an opportunity to meet up with sponsors
and couldn't catch up.  Going forward, Sally laid out which conventions are
key to meet sponsors and possibly down the road, other conventions to
solicit new sponsors.

DONATIONS

Still done nothing here, though at least we're in good shape for thank you
letters.  I still want to engage the community to get ideas on how we could
encourage more donors.

COORDINATION

Geir has been great, I still owe another trip to Boston to meet up with
Sally and Shane again, Philip and infrastructure are waiting on me to push
on the AMD hardware, and I'm due for a lunch again with Greg.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

STATUS:

- Budget: we purchased an additional set of 10 discounted news wire
distributions from PR Newswire, produced new "sumo" promo cards and a
retractable vertical banner (to be used at OSCON), the final installment
for the 2009-2010 contract with HALO Worldwide, and Sally's travel
expenses for MEAOSS Forum (hotel) and OSCON (airfare and hotel).

- Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: no formal activities between the
three groups other than individual email exchanges. A second face-to-face
has not been scheduled yet.

- Press Releases: we issued the following press release over the PR
NewsWire service:

-- June 29, 2010 The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Tomcat
Version 7.0

Also, the infra and site-dev teams have worked together to automate the
publishing of the ASF blog posts to appear on both the apache.org home
page and Foundation News section. Thank you, everyone!

- Informal Announcements: the following announcements were distributed to
our dedicated press/analyst list (only; not PR Newswire), as well as
posted on the ASF blog and Twitter feed:

-- July 7, 2010 Media Alert: The Apache Software Foundation Announces
   Apache Cayenne Version 3.0
-- July 7, 2010 Apache Cayenne v.3.0 Technical Fact Sheet
-- July 15, 2010 The Apache Software Foundation Announces New
   Board Members

In addition, to augment the "Did You Know?" ASF factoids posted on
Twitter, we created the "The ASF Asks:" campaign, which is a new format to
provide a snapshot with top-level information on select Apache projects.
For example, Apache Pivot graduated from the Incubator this past December.
Version 1.5 was released last month, but no press release went out then as
it wasn't a major release (e.g. 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, etc.). The first of these
project highlights was distributed to our press/analyst list, posted on
the ASF blog, and tweeted last week:

We coordinated several interviews for both the Tomcat 7 and Cayenne
announcements as well as numerous press hits based on the news
announcement alone (i.e., the articles were published using the material
from the press announcements).


-- July 14, 2010 The ASF Asks: Have you met Apache Pivot?

Feedback has been positive thus far. James Governor of RedMonk said: "Very
cool.... like the information approach". Hopefully other folks will also
find this helpful in navigating our nearly 150 projects!

We're coordinating interviews on Pivot, including eWeek and the Bitsource.

The "Did You Know?" Twitter campaign is ongoing, with lots of re-tweets.
Some Members and Committers have emailed Sally directly in appreciation of
these factoids as they're helpful to their $dayjobs. We're still seeking
success stories – please forward to Sally at press-AT-apache-DOT-org.


- Media Relations: the past month has picked up considerably in terms of
proactive media activity; Sally has arranged with the editor-in-chief of
ComputerWorldUK to have a dedicated team of ASF bloggers with an
enterprise focus to share their personal perspectives on various industry
developments and Apache projects that would be of interest to their
readers. Details are still being worked out; the launch is early August.

Justin presented at TransferSummit in June. As part of the event's
promotion, Sally wrote a co-bylined article, "Open innovation at Apache:
'No Jerks Allowed!'" for The H (Heise's English-language outlet)
http://www.h-online.com/open/features/TransferSummit-Open-innovation-at-
Apache-No-Jerks-Allowed-1025691.html. Their editor-in-chief reported "'No
jerks allowed' went down terribly well, so much so that Heise in Germany
have had it translated." Apparently the title of that article includes the
word "idioten" in there somewhere <g>. The article was also featured on
the eNewsletter of their sister site, LXer.

Sally is working with writer David Carr, who contacted us for assistance
identifying the top ten Apache projects for enterprise- use for an article
he's writing for the new Open Source section of the Dell-sponsored
publication, IT Expert Voice. He also writes for Forbes.com and CIO
Magazine and would like to continue working with us to develop additional
projects.


- Future Announcements: The Apache FOP v.1.0 press release will be issued
via PR Newswire on Wednesday, 21 July. No other press releases are
planned at this time.


- Analyst Relations: Sally has been working with RedMonk to be introduced
to enterprise users of various Apache products to find success stories to
be featured in the "Did You Know?" campaign.


- ApacheCon liaison: Sally wrote and published the new copy for the
ApacheCon Website; the remaining sections, including schedule and speakers
bios, will be posted when registration opens. The conference program is
complete, and now we are working to link to the registration system by the
end of the month. Sally is overseeing conference promotion and is helping
Charel retain a PR firm to handle the day-to-day activities, and is
seeking media partners to help spread the word. Sally will also be working
with Rich Bowen to interview all ApacheCon Track chairs on Feathercast to
help promote tracks/sessions/projects.

- (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison (in partnership with
ConCom):

-- 15-16 June: MEAOSS Forum/Cairo – Sally forwarded a brief on the event,
her presentations, and resultant press coverage to ConCom.

-- 19-23 July: OSCON/Portland, Oregon – Sally will man the ASF booth
(#812), with assistance from new Member Leif Hedstrom, as well as Paul
Querna, Justin Erenkrantz, and Danese Cooper. Sally
created/designed/produced new banner signage for the booth, as well as new
"sumo" promo cards (ASF on one side, ApacheCon on the other), which will
be distributed during the event. We will likely send any extras to be
distributed at the Open World Forum. Sally is also coordinating onsite
press interviews for Greg and Justin.

-- 30 Sept-1 Oct: Open World Forum/Paris – Sally is coordinating
cross-promotion.

- PR Newswire account: we have used 7 of the 10 pre-paid flat-rate press
releases on PR Newswire. The remaining 3 releases are available until 6
October 2010. Our additional set of 10 are available until 30 April 2011.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

Not much to report.  The differences between the WHATWG and W3C drafts
continue to grow, but to date none of the differences that relate to HTML5 are
normative or substantive.  The WHATWG draft does contain content that is not
present in the W3C draft - some of it is content that may be considered in
future versions of HTML, others of which have been rejected by the W3C WG.
There is no clear marking as to which is which.

The W3C still has not settled on a license for the HTML5 specification.  The
current holdup is awaiting confirmation from the FSF that the license selected
is GPL compatible.

Of course, there are other working groups in the W3C, just none that I am
aware of people participating in an ASF capacity.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

A quiet couple of months.  3 JIRA's opened, 3 closed (one new, two old).

Routine questions just as JSON license, IP clearance, and trademark issues
were discussed.  Nothing meriting board attention.

Larry has suggested that the ASF name a General Counsel, and volunteered for
the task.  I support both suggestions.  Should we adopt the suggestion, a
separate Legal Affairs VP may no longer be needed - we can either retire the
position or simply name the same individual that to that role.

I suggest that we take that up when we name other Executive officers.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For June 2010: There continues to be a steady stream of reports
of various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to
be triaged by the security team.

2      Support question
3      Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
6      Vulnerability reports of which:
       2      Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [httpd, internal via security@httpd.apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [axis, internal via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@apache.org]

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

ApacheCon North America, Atlanta 2010
=====================================

All speakers have been informed of the status of their proposals. It's becoming
clear that some proposals were lost in the ether, but we've been working to fit
in those that we're aware of.

Registration is still not open - Charel assures us that this will be done very
soon, and Noirin and Tony are working furiously to get all the talks into and
scheduled in the CMS.

Apache Retreat Hursley
======================

ConCom has agreed to underwrite a proposal for the Apache Retreat Hursley, to
be held at IBM's Clubhouse near Southampton in August. The budget is estimated
at approx $9kUSD, with a target audience of 40 attendees.

Registration is now open for the Retreat, and TAC applications are being
accepted.

We're awaiting an invoice from the IBM Clubhouse to cover the deposit on
accommodation, and costs for bedding etc. Other costs will be settled after the
event.

There was some discussion about the name of the event, but the ultimate
decision was that the Retreat name should remain for this event.

Other news
==========

Sally brought back a great report from MEAOSS - it's obvious that there's local
interest in Open Source and Apache, but not yet clear exactly what help/support
we can and should provide.

Cloudera have informed us of their intention, under our MOU, to hold Hadoop
World in October this year.

Riptano and Rackspace are organising a Cassandra Summit in August. Jonathan
Ellis has agreed to provide oversight in his role as PMC chair.

There has been some discussion of whether we should continue to participate in
Open World Forum in future years. This has not yet been resolved.

The ConCom list is now open to all committers. We haven't yet told committers
about this, but it's a change in policy that was first mooted at the Apache
Retreat in April.

In the spirit of Greg's original proposal for the Apache Retreat, the first
Apache Dev House will be held in Zurich, the weekend of September 11th/12th.
There are no expectations for this event!

There has been a suggestion that ConCom consider working with OSCON to provide
Apache content in a structured manner. Noirin is working on getting all the
right introductions and finding out what's possible, and will report back to
the committee shortly.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Philip Gollucci performed a general cleanup of the filesystem
on minotaur (people).

Ok'd Jukka's plan to setup Gerrit for hosting an Apache Lab.

Infra was notified of a compromised gmail account potentially
hacked as a result of the jira hack on Apache.

Joe Schaefer was called for 2 weeks of jury duty and the team
capably picked up the slack in his absence.  Kudos in particular
to Gavin McDonald, Philip Gollucci, and Paul Querna.

The new replacement machine for eos is currently online and
serving traffic for www.apache.org and mail-archives.apache.org.
Migration of the moin wiki will be forthcoming soon.  Thanks to
Paul Querna and Philip Gollucci for doing the bulk of the setup.

The new replacement machine for athena is setup and should be
brought online as mx1.us shortly.  Thanks to Norman Maurer and
Philip Gollucci for doing the bulk of the setup.

Received a "paid invoice" notice from Network Depot for the 
SonicWall.

Held some discussions between Mark Thomas and Philip Gollucci
about how to set-up baldr, the machine destined to host 
issues.apache.org.

Ordered a Dell R410 for ~$5000 to serve as a replacement for
minotaur (people).

Tony Stevenson made a few modifications to our LDAP tree to
better service Hudson and similar apps.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

ApacheCon NA 2010
-----------------

Applications closed, judges have marked and our recipients have been chosen
- some have replied and accepted.
We have 13 applicants this time around.
Next steps are underway, letters needed for Visas are being prepared etc, 
travel agent has been chosen.
Thanks to our TA liaison and Shepherds for the next steps.

Apache Hursley Retreat
----------------------

Applications are now open for folks to apply for TAC assistance to this 
committer only event. Advertising has been limited to our website, twitter 
and the committers mailing list. We should be able to accommodate 6 to 10 
applicants should that many be successful.

General
-------

Status Quo as far as our committee members goes and no new lurkers on our 
mailing list for a while.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

Community:
* The development and user lists continue to stay active and vibrant.
* No new committers or PMC members added

Development:
* Working towards an ActiveMQ 5.4 release.
* Prototype broker core for ActiveMQ 6.x is showing promise

Releases:
* ActiveMQ-CPP 3.2.1
* ActiveMQ-CPP 3.2.0
* ActiveMQ-CPP 3.1.3
* Apache.NMS API 1.3.0
* Apache.NMS.ActiveMQ 1.3.0
* Apache.NMS.Stomp 1.3.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Attic Project

No issues for the board.

* iBATIS has moved to the attic with a few outstanding tasks [ATTIC-66].

* Quetzalcoatl has moved over to the Attic with a few outstanding
tasks [ATTIC-67].

Nothing else is in the pipeline, though Crimson (XML), ECS (Jakarta), 
ORO (Jakarta) and Regexp (Jakarta) are possibles.

I (Henri) have asked for volunteers to replace me as the VP. Gianugo 
has volunteered and we may have a resolution in in time for the board 
meeting.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Avro Project

COMMUNITY

No changes to the PMC or committers.

Mailing list traffic:
avro-user 1 message/day
avro-dev  5 messages/day

There have been 11 new Jira items opened this month.

RELEASES

While there have been no releases this month, there has been discussion 
about making a 1.4.0 release next month. 

-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache CXF Project

Releases:
2.0.13* was released
2.1.10* was released
2.2.8 and 2.2.9* were released

* Note:  2.0.13, 2.1.10, and 2.2.9 were primarily released as a patch for a 
severe security issue reported to security@.     There were no plans to 
release any further 2.0.x and 2.1.x versions, but the community thought that 
the security issue warranted another release.


New committers:
We had "temporary" accounts created for two of our three Google Summer of Code 
students and granted them access to our sandbox.   This has been a success  
and the students have been doing quite a bit of work there.

Issues requiring board attention:
In our last report, we complained about the JCP TCK access process.   I'm 
happy to report that the new process seems to be going much better.   CXF is 
getting patches and TCK's much quicker.    I think other projects are also 
much happier with the responses.   Consider that issue resolved.

Community update:
With access to the JAX-WS 2.2 TCK, we were able to really start tackling the 
2.2 features.   We're happy to report that the code on trunk now passes the 
TCK.    We still have quite a bit of cleanup work before 2.3 is ready to be 
released, but a major feature is now done.

All three Google Summer of Code projects are going VERY well and are on track 
to be completed successfully.   We're all excited about the new features these 
projects will bring to CXF.

On the Distributed OSGi front, 1.2 should be released shortly.   The last 
couple of issues targeted for the release were resolved this week so final 
preps are being made to roll the release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache DB Project

Development in the DB project continued over the last quarter:

1) Derby published a feature release, 10.6.1.0. Derby developers are now
working on a 10.6.2 distribution for release later this year. Developers
are also working on the next feature vehicle, 10.7.1.

2) Derby committers are mentoring three summer-of-code projects.

3) Lily Wei was elected as a Derby committer.

4) JDO is vetting release 3.0.

5) Work by Torque's one active committer continues steadily.

6) Users continue to log Ddlutils issues although mailing list traffic is
light and six months have passed since the last commit. The DB PMC
believes that Ddlutils is still a living albeit quiet project.

7) The DB PMC broached the topic of moving ObjectRelationalBridge to the
Attic. However, no action was taken.

8) The topic of DB's umbrella nature came up again. There was consensus
that we adequately oversee two active projects, Derby and JDO. No one had
a better idea of how to oversee less active projects like Torque and
Ddlutils.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

There's nothing noteworthy to report. No new committers, or new PMC members.
The GSoC projects have started up with two new students.

There are some releases:

  Apache Directory Server 1.5.7

  Apache LDAP API 0.1

Currently heavy work is being done on Apache Directory Server 2.0 which will
hopefully be released before the next board report is due. Work has already
begun on Apache Directory Studio 2.0. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

No Major issues to report. The community has been active on the dev
and user mailing lists. There have been multiple releases from the
community (Geronimo Server, Eclipse Plugin, Java EE Specs, XBean,
etc). The community continues to actively work on Geronimo 3.0
development while maintaining our 2.1.x and 2.2.x Server branches.

RELEASES 

* Geronimo 3.0-M1, our first Java EE 6-based release, was released in
  June.
* Geronimo 2.1.6 was released in July to address security
  vulnerabilities that were uncovered in Axis2 and CXF.
* The community has also been making progress towards a new 2.2.1
  release.
* Geronimo Eclipse Plugin (GEP) 2.1.5, 2.1.6 and 3.0-M1 were released.
* Geronimo Samples 3.0-M1 was released in July. 
* A Geronimo plugin for OpenJPA 2.0.0 was released in April.
* Geronimo TXManager 3.0 and JASPI 1.1 were released.
* XBean 3.7 was released in May.
* A number of Geronimo spec jars were released in April to support our
  Java EE6 development efforts.

JUGS and CONFERENCES

A Geronimo track has been planned for ApacheCon.

SECURITY

Geronimo 2.1.6 was released to pick up security fixes for
vulnerabilities discovered in CXF and Axis2.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Hadoop Project

Hadoop status report for April 2010 to July 2010

Hadoop is a set of related tools and frameworks for creating and
managing distributed applications running on clusters of commodity
computers.

The 3rd annual Hadoop Summit was held on 29 June in Santa Clara. It
sold out at 1,000 attendees 10 days before the conference. The program
is available here:
http://developer.yahoo.com/events/hadoopsummit2010/agenda.html. The
slides and videos of the presentations are available online.

The second Hadoop World was announced in NYC on 12 October. The call
for presentations is open until 2 August.

There are a large number of local Hadoop User Groups around the
world. The Bay Area HUG meets monthly and has an audience of roughly
300 people.

To increase communication and reduce tensions, the SF Bay Area core
contributors (Common, HDFS, and MapReduce) have been having monthly
meetings that rotate between venues (Cloudera, Facebook, and
Yahoo!). We've discussed wide-ranging topics from process issues to
new technical ideas. All of the notes and slides are distributed on
the lists to engage developers who can't attend.

The Hadoop PMC added the following members:
* Sanjay Radia (Yahoo)
* Hemath Yamijala (indep)

CHUKWA

Chukwa is a distributed log collection framework that aggregates logs
from across a cluster into a reasonable number of HDFS files.

As part of the continuing Hadoop divestiture of sub-projects, Chukwa's
developers were encouraged to move to Apache Incubator. Although
Chukwa has already completed many of the Incubator graduation
requirements (diversity of committers, code clearance, releases), they
have not voted in new contributors or PMC members. Also, none of the
Chukwa committers have been on any Apache PMC's and need more guidance
than jumping into a TLP would have provided. Some of the work has been
done (accepted by Incubator, moved subversion, added to Incubator
wiki), but more is left to do (web site, mailing lists). They are
scheduled to report next month as a Podling.

COMMON

Common is the shared libraries for HDFS and MapReduce.

Releases:
 * 0.21.0 release candidates for Common, HDFS, and MapReduce have been
   rolled, but there are still some blockers. The hope is to get the
   blockers fixed and a release out next month.

New committers:
 * Amareshwari Sriramadasu (Yahoo)

Community:
 * 1013 subscribers on common-dev
 * 1965 subscribers on common-user

HDFS

HDFS is a distributed file system that support reliable replicated
storage across the cluster using a single name space.

Releases:
* The 0.21 release is still solidifying.
* A new branch called branch-0.20-append was created to support the append
  feature to HDFS files. HBase needs this feature to run without data loss in a
  production environment.

New committers:
* New committer Eli Collins (Cloudera)

Community:
* 26 committers
* 198 code contributors
* 247 subscribers on hdfs-dev
* 390 subscribers on hdfs-user

* Design proposal to support distributed HDFS NameNode.

HIVE

Hive is a data warehouse written on top of Hadoop.  It provides SQL to
query and manage data stored in Hadoop in table and partitions and
provides a metastore to metadata information about the data stored in
hadoop.

Releases:
0.6.0 branched and we are priming up to release it.

New committers:
* John Sichi (Facebook)

Community:
* 164 contributors (commented, filed bugs or contributed to Hive). This was 
  115 at the last report time.

MAPREDUCE

MapReduce is a distribute computation framework for easily writing
applications that process large volumes of data.

Releases:
* The 0.21 release is still solidifying.

New committers:
* Amareshwari Sriramadasu (Yahoo)

Community:
* 268 subscribers to mapreduce-dev
* 465 subscribers to mapreduce-user

PIG

Pig is a platform for analyzing large data sets that consists of a
high-level language for expressing data analysis programs, coupled
with infrastructure for evaluating these programs.

Releases:
 * Pig 0.7.0 released on 5/13/2010

Community:
 * 12 committers and 5 emeriti (4 retired in the last month)
 * 191 developers (compared to 181 in the last report)
 * 452 users (compared to 402 in the last report)


ZOOKEEPER

ZooKeeper is a reliable coordination service for distributed
applications.

Releases:
* release 3.3.1 on 17/May/10

New committers:
none

Community:

* 5 active committers, 2 PMC members

* 160 subscribers on zookeeper-dev (up from 147 3 months ago)
* 307 subscribers on zookeeper-user (compared to 269 in the same timeframe)

Three student proposals to work on ZooKeeper projects were accepted for 
GSOC.

Feedback and community involvement has been slowly increasing, we
frequently meet with users during Hadoop meetups and hold site visits.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache HBase Project

HBase is a distributed column-oriented database built on top of Hadoop
Common and HDFS

On June 30th, the day after the hadoop summit, Facebook hosted an
hbase 'summit' that was well attended [1].

Releases:

* We released hbase-0.20.5 June 24th.  It had 24 fixes over 0.20.4
* We released 0.89.20100621, a stabilized preview/beta of the next
major version of hbase, cut from TRUNK, on June 25th

Next week we will put up two new release candidates: one for 0.20.6
and another release in the 0.89.x series.

Development is brisk on TRUNK as we head toward our next major version
release, hbase-0.90.0.

(To learn about why the jump in hbase versioning -- from 0.20.x to
0.89.x and 0.90.x for our next release, see [2]).

No new committers added in this period.

1. http://www.meetup.com/hbaseusergroup/calendar/13562846/
2. http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/Hbase/HBaseVersions


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project

This status report for the Apache HttpComponents project was originally
due in May 2010. However due to reasons described below, this version -
updated until July 2010 - is submitted for the board meeting in July 2010.

Status

Overall the project remains very active. However, the actual project
composition can be seen as suboptimal. The number of active committers is
quite low.

The PMC has reached consensus to change the PMC chair, and is submitting a
resolution to the board to this effect.

Releases

We have had two release since the last report:

   *      3 April 2010 - HttpComponents HttpCore 4.1-beta1
   *      19 May 2010 - HttpComponents HttpClient 4.1-alpha2

Community

Project Management Committee

The project unfortunately missed submission of a status report for the
scheduled board meeting in May; and thereafter for the meeting in June -
although the PMC had created a draft report by that time in the absence of
the PMC chair. After failing to effectively contact the PMC chair, the PMC
has reached consensus on a proposed successor for the role. A resolution
requesting the board to change the PMC chair is submitted herewith.

Project Committers and Users

Both HttpCore and HttpClient have an active and diverse user community.
Just recently there has been a number of significant code contributions by
community members. For example, an entire HTTP caching module has been
recently contributed to the project by a group of external contributors.
At the same time only a few committers actively participate in a day to
day management of the project and code development.

A question has been raised
[http://www.mail-archive.com/dev@hc.apache.org/msg04365.html] during a
previous release cycle whether Maven artifacts (which includes source)
should be voted on by the PMC. However, it has been shown that as these
Maven artifacts can be recreated with the main source distribution (zip
and tarball) - which is voted by the PMC, that the Maven artifacts does
not require to be voted by the PMC.

Development

HttpCore 4.1 is progressing well toward its target. The final 4.1 release
can be expected within next 6 months. HttpClient is also being actively
developed. There is a good number of external contributors providing
valuable feedback and significant code contributions on a regular basis.
Several frequently asked for features have been added to HttpClient. The
4.1 API is still considered experimental and will require more work to
finalize. HttpClient 4.1 is expected to enter BETA development phase
sometime this year or early next year.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The Incubator added several new PMC members since the last report: Chris
Hostetter, Norman Maurer, Owen O'Malley and Senaka Fernando.

A project entered Incubation:

  Nuvem - an open application programming interface for common cloud
application services

And several more are preparing to enter Incubation, a couple of them being
sub-projects from existing Apache projects, where they have asked to come
through the Incubator before going for TLP status.

All projects except for JSPWiki filed their reports.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

= Ace =

Community:

 * Angelo van der Sijpt was present at the Second London Java Community
Unconference, organized with the ASF, talking about ACE.
 * Karl Pauls and Marcel Offermans repeated their tutorial on, amongst other
things, ACE at SkillsMatter in London.
 * ACE will also be present at the ApacheCon NA in Atlanta in November.

Software:

 * More work on the Maven build has been done.
 * Upgraded the UI to the latest GWT libraries.
 * Finished migration of all existing unit tests.

Licensing and other issues:

 * None at the moment.

Things to resolve prior to graduation:

 * Make a release.
 * Grow the community some more.


= Amber =

Amber is a project to develop a Java library which provides an API
specification for, and an unconditionally compliant implementation of the
OAuth v1.0, v1.0a and v2.0 specifications. OAuth is a mechanism that allows
users to authenticate and authorize access by another party to resources
they control while avoiding the need to share their username and password
credentials.

The most important issues that must be addressed before graduation are:

 * attract new users and developers
 * making a release

Latest activity:

 * The initial developers are discussing about API definition, modules'
design and build process.
 * Code from Amber lab and Pid's OAuth contribution has been committed.
 * A short talk has been given about OAuth and Amber at the London Java
Community Unconference.

Next steps:

 * apply the API definition choices approved by the community
 * implementation of different specification versions (client and server)

Community:

 * The community is in the first stages of formation and solely consists of
the developers, though a few users start to appear on the mailing lists.


= BeanValidation =

Apache Bean Validation will deliver an implementation of the JSR303 Bean
Validation 1.0 specification. BVAL entered incubation on March 1, 2010.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation.

 * First release of artifacts - Done
 * Grow the community and committer base - ongoing
 * Decide on graduation target of TLP or subproject - TBD

Any issues that the Incubator PMC or ASF Board might wish/need to be aware
of?

 * None at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

 * PPMC membership was extended and accepted by Carlos Vara.
 * Committer offer was extended and accepted by David Jencks.
 * Growing activity on the dev list for two potential committers.

How has the project developed since the last report?

 * Started discussions about potential content for a 0.2-incubating release.
 * Bean Validation benchmark app contributed by Carlos Vara to help with
performance testing against the Hibernate RI.


= Bluesky =

BlueSky  has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

Recently, developer NanHongzhen had committed the IPv6 and Satellite patch of
RealClass in BlueSky jira. I've download the modules and tested them(only
IPv6 module,'cause i don't have an environment with satellite.). It functions
but those files are not well organized and probably not legal in certain
config files. I need to clean the files first and then commit them to repos.

 * accept IPv6 and Satellite patch of RealClass;

next step:

 * clean IPV6 and Satellite module source files.
 * commit IPV6 and Satellite module to repos.


= Chemistry =

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide an implementation of the CMIS
(Content Management Interoperability Services) specification in Java,
Python, PHP, JavaScript (and possibly other languages). Chemistry entered
incubation on April 30th, 2009.

Issues to address in the move towards graduation:

 * First Java release (an attempt has been made but there were issues).
 * First non-Java release

Community development since the last report:

 * PHP library added, with Richard McKnight as new committer.

Project development since the last report:

 * Oasis CMIS 1.0 spec is final.
 * Code merge OpenCMIS / Chemistry completed, only one Java code base now.
 * Improvement / stabilization of the client API.
 * Improvement of the online documentation in the wiki.
 * Enhanced query integration in OpenCMIS.
 * First prototyping around the proposed browser binding (JSON protocol) in
the sandbox.
 * More license documentations to make release candidate ASF compliant.
 * Preparations for a first release 0.1.


= Deltacloud =

Deltacloud defines a web service API for interacting with cloud service
providers and resources in those clouds in a unified manner. In addition, it
consists of a number of implementations of this API for the most popular
clouds.

Deltacloud entered the incubator in 2010-05-17.

- Project basically setup  (info for 3 people still being worked to get ICLA
correctly listed) - Code has been imported. - Working to get Code Grant on
file - Project active, commits and mail list discussions have started. - The
website has not been setup yet.


= Empire-db =

Empire-db is a relational data persistence component that aims to overcome
the difficulties, pitfalls and restrictions inherent in traditional Object
Relational Management (ORM) approaches. Empire-db is on the Apache Incubator
since July 2008.

Issues to address in the move towards graduation:

We are still aware of the fact that we need to do more advertising of
Empire-db on major development forums like e.g. http://TheServerSide.com in
order to raise attention for the project.

Community development since the last report

The community has remained stable and several users questions have been
answered on the user list. We still receive positive feedback from users but
had no contributions from new users in the past quarter.

Project development since the last report

After having received approval from the incubator PMC we have published
our 2.0.6 release and updated our website accordingly. There are plans for
improvements and open issues on our list but all committers were too busy to
make significant contributions in the past quarter. We hope that we can
deliver improvements to the projects in the upcoming quarter.


= Imperius =

Imperius has been incubating since November 2007.

Imperius is a rule-based policy evaluation engine based on the CIM-SPL
language from Distributed Management Task Force (dtmf.org).

The voting for the first release of Imperius was passed on Jan 18, 2010.
The release was initially made available on April 12, 2010 via the Imperius
website and mirrors.

Communication continues to be intermittent, although there seem to be one to
two new people on the mailing list this quarter.   Most recent interest
seems to be in the use of CIM-SPL binding as opposed to the Java binding.
Some enhancements have been made to improve information on parse errors.  No
real progress has been made or steps taken towards graduating the project.

Things to resolve prior to graduation:
* Grow the community
* Next steps and future of Imperius at Apache.


= Nuvem =
Apache Nuvem will define an open application programming interface for
common cloud application services, allowing applications to be easily ported
across the most popular cloud platforms.

Nuvem was accepted for Incubation on June, 2010.

Currently Nuvem is working on creating necessary infrastructure for
kicking-off the project at Apache.


= Olio =

Olio has been incubating since September 2008.

Olio is a web 2.0 toolkit to help developers evaluate the suitability,
functionality and performance of various web technologies by implementing a
reasonably complex application in several different technologies.

Most users are now using the 0.2 release. A few bugs have been found in this
release as more users are now using it, but none of them are major.

We have several new users of Olio this quarter with all 3 versions of the
application being used.
Olio seems to be the workload of choice for testing virtual machines.
Several researchers as well VMware are using Olio for this purpose.

Graduation From Incubation:
Diversity of committers is the primary issue with the project - although we
are adding users, we haven't been successful in converting them to
committers. We have a few users sending patches for bugs they file.

We could use the PMC and Board's help in spreading the word about Olio to
get better traction.


= Shiro =

Shiro is a powerful and flexible open-source application security framework
that cleanly handles authentication, authorization, enterprise session
management and cryptography.

Shiro has been incubating since June 2008.

The team is pleased to report the project made its first incubation release,
version 1.0.0-incubating. The release was made following the best practices
of an Apache  release process. The team encountered only minor issues during
the process and  the release vote demonstrated strong support from the
community.

Prior to the release, the team made a concentrated effort to clean up the
codebase, updated the Javadocs and close out any remaining JIRA issues. The
project website  and wiki-based user documentation was greatly improved.

The project also designed new logos and chose a new one for the project in a
community vote that was met with enthusiasm.

Kalle Korhonen was voted in to join the PPMC. Existing PPMC members
identified  a new potential committer and discussed the matter but no vote
was held yet. Some  concern was expressed about the small number of active
committers.

The team feels confident about the mid-term roadmap. Progress is made
towards making a 1.0.1 maintenance release as well as a new 1.1.0 minor
release. The project is  targeting graduation by October.

The status is being maintained at
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/shiro/STATUS


= Socialsite =

There has been no activity in the SocialSite community and no progress in
getting Oracle to come through on Sun's unwritten commitment to donate the
Project SocialSite codebase to Apache. There's still a chance that Oracle
will come through so perhaps this podling should be put into some sort of
mothballed state if there is such a thing or terminated if there is not.


= Tashi =

Tashi has been incubating since September 2008.

The Tashi project aims to build a software infrastructure for cloud
computing  on massive internet-scale datasets (what we call Big Data). The
idea is to  build a cluster management system that enables the Big Data that
are stored in  a cluster/data center to be accessed, shared, manipulated,
and computed on by  remote users in a convenient, efficient, and safe
manner.

Tashi has previously encompassed just the tools to manage virtual machines
using Xen and KVM, but is gaining the facility to hand out physical machines
as well.

Development activities have included fixes to conform to new python
programming standards, support for VHD virtual disks in Xen, configurable
vlan bridge templates for Xen, along with expansion of documentation.

The project is still working toward building a larger user and development
community. User groups have been identified in Ireland and Korea, and the
developers are trying to reach out to them.

Items to be resolved before graduation:

 * Prepare and review a release candidate
 * Develop community diversity (currently Intel and CMU committers)


= Thrift =

Thrift is a software framework for scalable cross-language services
development. It combines a software stack with a code generation engine to
build services that work efficiently and seamlessly between a variety of
programming languages. Thrift entered the Apache Incubator in May 2008.

 * Ongoing feature additions and bugfixes
 * Bryan Duxbury appointed as release manager last report cycle
 * Vote currently pending for release candidate 0.3.0-rc5, waiting on two
more IPMC votes


= VXQuery =
The VXQuery Project implements a standard compliant XML Query processor. It
has been in incubation since 2009-07-06.

Recent activities:

 * progressing slowly towards running the complete XQTS (XQuery Test Suite)

Top issues before graduation:

 * Increase development speed
 * Build community (developer and users)
 * Create a release

= Whirr =

Whirr provides code for running a variety of software services on cloud
infrastructure.

Whirr was accepted into the incubator on 11 May 2010. Status information is
available at http://incubator.apache.org/projects/whirr.html.

Progress since the last report: There has been steady development, with 17
JIRA issues having been resolved since the last report. A cloud hackathon
held at Cloudera's offices attracted a number of people interested in Whirr
development. The next step is to make a release of Whirr.

Plans for the next period:

 * Do an initial 0.1.0 release.
 * Set up the website.

Top three items to resolve before graduation:

 * Increase community involvement in the project
 * Make several incubating releases
 * Support at least three services on Whirr


= Zeta Components =

Zeta Components is a high-quality library of loosely-coupled PHP components.
It has entered incubation on 2010-05-21. Therefore the project is still in
ramp up phase.

In the past month,

 * all Apache accounts have been created
 * Jira has been created
 * SVN repository is prepared for the import.

The 3 most important issues to be tackled are:

 * Create initial incubating infrastructure.
 * Move project and community to ASF.
 * Get development based in ASF moving again.

At the moment the SVN export needs to be signed of from the eZ management.
Once this is done, SVN can move.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

Jakarta status report, July 2010. There are no issues requiring board
attention at this time.

* General
The consolidation of the Jakarta subproject development mailing lists into
a single development list is now complete, thanks to the infrastructure
team. With this consolidation and the moving of Jakarta Slide and Jakarta
Taglibs subprojects to the Attic, we have reduced the number of public
mailing lists by 50% (from 24 to 12).

We continue to discuss potential new homes, with the Apache Attic being one
of the potential homes, for three more Jakarta subprojects: ECS, ORO and
Regexp. These have number of active users but no new major development
planned.

* Releases
 - BSF 3.1 was released on June 24th, 2010
 - JMeter 2.4 was released on July 14th, 2010

* Subproject news

* BCEL
Couple of posts to the user list and couple of new issues reported in
Bugzilla. The topic of a new release came up, and sebb made a number of
minor improvements to the code.

* BSF
BSF 3.1 was released on June 24th. Other than the release activity, it has
been a quiet quarter on the mailing lists.

* Cactus
One new JIRA issue raised. No development activity this quarter.

* ECS
No activity - maintenance mode.

* JCS
Small number of posts on the user list. A handful of new issues (7) were
reported in JIRA.

* JMeter
User mailing list is still very active. There are quite a few regulars who
help out with answering questions. Continued progress on fixing some bugs
(e.g in JMS) and adding new functionality (SMTP) by sebb. JMeter 2.4 was
released on July 14th.

* ORO
No activity - maintenance mode.

* Regexp
No activity - maintenance mode.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache JAMES Project

=== JAMES Status Report: July 2010 ===

The Apache JAMES Project delivers a rich set of open source modules
and libraries, written in Java, related to internet mail  which build
into an advanced enterprise mail server.

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

CURRENT ACTIVITY

The Project tries to get the imap library ready for a release. We have
currently 1 blocker left which need to get fixed before the release is
done. After that we have finally removed every SNAPSHOT dependency for
JAMES Server and are able to cut a milestone.

GOOGLE SUMMER OF CODE

As part of Google's Summer of Code program Tim Christian Mundt is
working on implementing a Maildir IMAP-Backend. We have no doubt that
he will be able to finish it in-time. Beside the Maildir stuff he also
contributed in a lot to other areas of the imap library.

COMMUNITY

We add one new Committer and one new PMC Member since the last report:

* Eric Charles (Committer)
* Manuel Carrasco Monino (PMC)


RELEASES

We did a bunch of releases since the last report:

Jul/2010 -
  * Apache Protocols 1.1

Jun/2010 -
  * Apache jSPF 0.9.8 released
  * Apache Mailet Base 1.1 released

May/2010 -
  * Apache Protocols 1.0
  * Apache jSieve 0.4
  * Apache Mailet Standard 1.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Karaf Project

It has been only a few weeks since the Karaf TLP has been established,
but the activity level is very high.   All resources have been set up
by infra (thx) and we have moved the opened JIRA issues and svn tree
from Felix to Karaf.

We've already received some patches from non developers, so I expect
the community to grow very soon.

We haven't released anything yet, and we're waiting for trunk to
stabilize before releasing a 2.0 (new major version due to package
renaming).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Mahout Project

=== Mahout Status Report: July 2010 ===

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

CURRENT ACTIVITY

The project continues to target September, 2010 for release of version 0.4.
This is unchanged since the last report. Recent activity in the project
can be viewed here:

https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?
 pid=12310751&fixfor=12314396&resolution=1

WEBSITE

The project's website at mahout.apache.org has been completely
redesigned:
http://mahout.apache.org/

GOOGLE SUMMER OF CODE

As part of Google's Summer of Code program, Mahout is halfway through
mentoring five projects. The projects will add or enhance capability in
the specific areas of:

- Boltzmann Machines
- Support Vector Machines
- Singular Value Decomposition for recommendations
- Neural network with back propagation learning
- Eigencuts spectral clustering

MAHOUT IN ACTION

The book "Mahout in Action", published by Manning, continues to be
written and is in 2/3 completion review with the publisher.

EXTERNAL EVENTS

Mahout's recommender system was presented in the key note and two talks
at the Berlin Buzzwords 2010 event.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

Maven Board Report - July 2010
---------------------------

* General Information
This quarter we had many plugin and shared module releases in addition to
one Beta of Maven 3. Several committers have put in a lot of effort to
introduce some new parallel build modes and this involved updating many
components to become thread-safe or to mark them explicitly not
thread-safe. A new beta of M3 is likely going to be staged in the next
week and this will hopefully be one of the last before we move to an
official release and on to exciting things in 3.1.

* New PMC Members
   +=Paul Gier (Friday, May 14th, 2010)
   -=Jesse Mcconnell volunteered to step down from the PMC and become
     Emeritus (Friday, July 16th 2010)

* New Committers

* Releases

  * Maven 3.0-beta-1 (Friday, April 23rd, 2010)

* Plugins

  * Maven Compiler Plugin 2.3 (Friday, April 16th, 2010)
  * Maven Javadoc Plugin 2.7 (Tuesday, May 4th, 2010)
  * Maven PMD Plugin 2.5 (Tuesday, May 4th, 2010)
  * Maven Plugin Plugin 2.6 (Wednesday, May 5th, 2010)
  * Maven Clean Plugin 2.4.1 (Wednesday, May 12th, 2010)
  * Maven Project Info Reports Plugin 2.2 (Thursday, May 20th, 2010)
  * Maven Shade Plugin 1.3.3 (Thursday, May 20th, 2010)
  * Maven Compiler Plugin 2.3.1 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven Resources Plugin 2.4.3 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven Install Plugin 2.3.1 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven EAR Plugin 2.4.2 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven JAR Plugin 2.3.1 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven Source Plugin 2.1.2 (Friday, May 21st, 2010)
  * Maven Changelog Plugin 2.2 (Friday, May 28th, 2010)
  * Maven Antrun Plugin 1.4 (Friday, May 28th, 2010)
  * Maven GPG Plugin 1.1 (Tuesday, June 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Site Plugin 2.1.1 (Friday, June 4th, 2010)

* Other

  * Maven Archetype 2.0-alpha-5 (Friday, April 23rd, 2010)
  * Maven Archetype Bundles parent 4 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Plugin Archetype 1.1 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Plugin Site Archetype 1.1 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Quickstart Archetype 1.1 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Site Achetype 1.1 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Simple Site Archetype 1.1 (Saturday, May 1st, 2010)
  * Maven Plugins Parent POM 18 (Wednesday, May 5th, 2010)
  * Maven Shared Jar 1.1 (Wednesday, May 12th, 2010)
  * Maven Reporting API 3.0 (Wednesday, May 12th, 2010)
  * Maven Reporting Implementation 2.0.5 (Wednesday, May 12th, 2010)
  * Maven Reporting Implementation 2.1 (Wednesday, May 12th, 2010)
  * Maven Archiver 2.4.1 (Thursday, May 13th, 2010)
  * Maven Doxia 1.1.3 (Thursday, May 27th, 2010)
  * Maven Doxia Site Tools 1.1.3 (Thursday, May 27th, 2010)
  * Maven Doxia Tools 1.2.1 (Sunday, May 30th, 2010)
  * Maven JXR 2.2 (Saturday, June 5th, 2010)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Releases
--------

No releases has been made since the last board report.

Community
---------

* No new committers or changes to the PMC since the last report
* The project has one GSoC student, working on adding BOSH (long-polling
HTTP) support for Vysper. Project is progressing as planned.

Development
-----------

* Work is still ongoing to get the last bugs and build issues out of what
will become MINA 2.0. Discussions and prototyping is continuing for a
future MINA 3.0
* It was discovered that a LGPL licensed file had been included in four
released 2.0 milestones. A vote is currently ongoing to have these
replaced by a "clean" release.
* Vysper development is primarily focused on the GSoC project and the
implementation of multi-user chat.
* FtpServer development has been pretty slow since the last report, mostly
working on adding minor features and fixing bugs reported by users.
* SSHD development is also mostly based around user reported features and
bugs.

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

MyFaces Quarterly Report July 2010

= Summary =
 * Some community changes
 * New releases
 * Discussions

= Community =
 * No new committers...
 * New PMC members:
  * Jakob Korherr
  * Blake Sullivan
  * Max Starets
  * Jan-Kees van Andel

= Releases =
 * MyFaces (sub) projects with new releases since the last report:
  * MyFaces Core 2.0.0 (TCK passed)
  * MyFaces Core 1.1.8 (TCK passed)
  * MyFaces Core 1.2.9 (TCK passed)
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.25
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.26
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.27
  * MyFaces Portlet Bridge 1.0.0

= Milestones =
 * MyFaces Extensions Validator 1.1.4 M2, M3
 * MyFaces Extensions Validator 1.2.4 M2, M3
 * MyFaces Extensions Validator 2.0.4 M2, M3

= Misc =
 * Apache MyFaces 2.0.0 passed the TCK!
 * TCK for JSR 301 has been developed at the MyFaces Portlet Bridge project.
   Currently the community is voting on its official release.
 * We finally fixed the reported security bug. Releases for JSF 1.1 and 1.2
   have been made available. A release for MyFaces 2 (2.0.1) is coming soon,
   since there were some other issues/bug.

= Discussions =
 * The vote for MyFaces 2.0.1 has been stopped, since we discovered other
   (technical) issues. The team is about to have a new vote for
   MyFaces 2.0.1 soon
 * Google Summer of Code: The Apache MyFaces team got the following project
   for Google Summer of Code accepted:
  * Module for automated webapp tests for MyFaces core + extensions:
      https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MYFACESTEST-6
  * [MAB] MyFaces Application Builder:
      https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MYFACES-2635
  * MyFaces 2.0 performance improvements:
      https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MYFACES-2634
  * HTML 5 renderkit for MyFaces:
      https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MYFACES-2632
  * CDI module for Ext-Scripting:
      https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/EXTSCRIPT-107
 * Students are currently working on their stuff.
   They also use the mailing list to communicate with the MyFaces community.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Nutch Project

=== Nutch Status Report: July 2010 ===

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

CURRENT ACTIVITY

The move to the TLP has been completed.

The 1.1 release has been published. We plan to maintain the 1.x
branch in preparation for a maintenance 1.2 release some time in
Q3/Q4, and bugfixes are being applied to both trunk and 1.x as relevant.
Significant progress has been made in cleaning up the trunk version
according to the roadmap and delegating large parts of functionality to
Solr and Tika, and during the next two months we plan to merge trunk
with a branch known as Nutchbase, which uses
a lightweight ORM framework Gora to enable Nutch to use multiple storage
backends.

COMMUNITY

No changes to the PMC or committers.

Chris A. Mattmann will give a talk at the ApacheCon Atlanta in November
on "Nutch 2.0 and beyond". Andrzej Bialecki will give a talk on
"Integration of Solr with crawlers: Nutch, LCF and Aperture" at the
Lucene Revolution conference in Boston in October.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache ODE Project

The ODE PMC voted a new PMC chair, the proposed resolution should be
attached.

 Release

We've released a new build out of our stable branch, including
incremental improvements and bug fixes: ODE 1.3.4.

 Development

Besides bug fixing main development activities have been spent into
reshaping the main development branches and into build and release
processes. We have decided to declare our stable 1.x branch to be our
main development branch. The former trunk is now our experimental
sandbox and we will be continuously back-porting features and 
improvements from this branch to trunk. First backporting efforts
have already been started, such as for extension activities and
transactional scopes.

 Community

Several new committers have been voted in this quarter: Antoine
Toulme, Anurag Aggarwal, Terry Mueller, David Carver and Aaron
Anderson. We're pretty pleased at the influx of new blood and all
the renewed activity that comes with it.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache OpenEJB Project

Work on the 3.1.next development has slowed and a release of that codebase
(3.1.3) is likely to come out soon.

Activity on the 3.2 codebase is going strong with significant progress on EJB
3.1 features, specifically; @AccessTimeout, @AfterBegin, @BeforeCompletion,
@AfterCompletion and some support for the @Asynchronous method invocations.
Most of this work is being done by contributors.  New committers are sure to
be right around the corner.  Work has started on JCDI integration aided by
the OpenWebBeans community.  That work is somewhat revolutionary and a
separate branch has been created temporarily to workout the overall
architecture and design of the integration.  Significant work is also being
done to overhaul and test the application validation code and related i18n
message keys.

Dev list participation has increased due to greater contributor activity.
User list traffic has slowed somewhat which is welcome as it provides a
little breathing room for development.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache OpenJPA Project

There are no items requiring board attention at this time.

Highlights

OpenJPA has published its implementation of the latest JPA 2.0
JSR-317, which is in final release status. As reported earlier,
the release occurred just after the April board meeting.

We finally got around to defining OpenJPA's DOAP file. The results:
http://projects.apache.org/projects/openjpa.html

Community

Mailing lists continue to be very active, with an average of close to 250
messages per month on the dev alias and approximately 200 messages per
month on the users alias.

OpenJPA continues to experience a modest increase in email subscriptions and
activity. There are about 150 subscribers to dev and over 230 to users.

Governance

There have been no changes to the committer or PMC rosters.

We continue to monitor contributors for possible committers and committers
for PMC members.

Releases

Final OpenJPA 2.0.0 has been released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache PDFBox Project

General Comments
----------------

There are no issues that require Board attention.

Community
---------

The PDFBox PMC voted Adam Nichols as new committer and PMC member.

There is a steady stream of contributions and bug reports from the
community.

In november Andreas will present PDFBox within the content track at
ApacheCon in Atlanta.

Releases
--------

- PDFBox (incl. FontBox and JempBox) 1.2.0 was released on June 29, 2010
- PDFBox (incl. FontBox and JempBox) 1.2.1 was released on July 11, 2010


Development:
------------

PDFBox 1.2.0 includes a lot of improvements and bug fixes. Because of a
significant performance regression we had to release Version 1.2.1 just
right after the last version.
As some people are interested in using PDFBox for text extraction on AndroidOS
and with Google Apps Engine, we are thinking about a more modular design so that
it is easier to adapt PDFBox for the usage on those runtime environments
with limited java support.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Shindig Project

Apache Shindig is an Opensocial Reference implementation in wide use by
both social networks and enterprise software.  Shindig graduated from the
Incubator in January 2010.

The Shindig PMC has no issues that require board attention

COMMUNITY

 * One new committer and PMC member - Henry Saputra,
 * Shindig was featured at the 'State of OpenSocial' event on May 18th, 2010.
 * Our Google Summer of Code student chose another project.
 * Worked with Infrastructure team to setup a remailer alias for 
   dev@shindig.apache.org. This is used to Cc the dev list for code
   reviews posted on codereview.appspot.com
 * The VP Apache Shindig, Paul Lindner was elected to the OpenSocial Board.

RELEASES

 * A 2.0.0-RC1 release was prepared, but not released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

This has been another quiet quarter for Struts. The Struts 2.2.0 release
process was canceled due to issues with the artifacts; a vote for a
Struts 2.2.1 release is currently underway. We released a new version
of our master Maven POM (Struts Master 7). There was no activity on
Struts 1 this quarter.

Due to the issues with the 2.2.0 build, we do not yet have a release that
addresses the reported vulnerability with XWork. We anticipate that the
2.2.1 release should take care of this.

The adoption of Nexus for streamlining the release process, noted in the
previous report, has been completed.

We added Lukasz Lenart (lukaszlenart) to the PMC this quarter, but added
no new committers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Tapestry had a very busy quarter, with new PMC members voted in (Igor
Drobiazko and Ulrich Stärk) as well as new committers (Robin Komiwes and 
Christophe Cordenier). In addition, we ran an vote to retire inactive PMC
members. We had an unsuccessful vote to codify the Tapestry bylaws; another
attempt is expected in the coming report period.

We are preparing a new set of documentation whose content will be
kept in the Confluence Wiki, addressing Tapestry's greatest weakness as
a project. The goal is to create more accessible documentation, that is more 
up-to date and useful. Further, the Wiki will be accessible to anyone who 
has provided a CLA, leading to much more community involvement in the
documentation. Part of this effort includes a new and very modern logo for
the project.

Our Google Summer of Code intern has been making progress on his projects.

Finally, we expect to release an alpha of Tapestry 5.2 in the near future,
with the goal of a short beta and a final release before JavaOne.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

After the recent release of Rivet, Massimo has kept up his good work
in refining the code, and we'll probably do another release sooner or
later to address a few of the minor issues that have cropped up.
Everything else is in maintenance mode: looked after when it needs to
be, but otherwise on cruise control.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Tika Project

Releases
=========================
There's been a bunch of development activity and mailing list activity in
Tika on a broad range of issues: related to charset detection improvement
[1] from Ken Krugler, to BoilerPlate extraction [2] (also from Ken), to
improving HTML parsing overall [3] [4] [5] with contributions from Julien
Nioche, Ken Krugler, Jukka Zitting, and our new committer Nick Burch (see
Community section). There has also been a flurry of activity on new Parsers,
improving parsing detection with Timeouts, Geospatial information
representation, improving PDF parsing and a host of other issues that
indicate the development community of Tika is thriving.

We've slipped a bit on our original intention to release 0.8 in this month's
timeframe. One thing that will need to get solved is the upload of some
current external dependencies (e.g., NetCDF, Boilerpipe) to Maven Central.
Chris Mattmann and Ken Krugler volunteered to take the lead on this. 0.8
isn't far off, but it's dependent on getting those jars up to Maven central.

Community
=========================
The Tika PMC elected to add Nick Burch [6] to the Tika PMC and committers
group. Nick is an ASF member, and the VP of Apache POI, an important
external library dependency of many of the Tika parsers. Welcome, Nick!

Chris Mattmann is teaching CS572: Information Retrieval and Web Search
Engines at USC this summer [7], and several of the final projects in his
class are related to Tika. There is a plan to contribute the final code
produced from some of the students in the form of JIRA issues and patches.

Tika In Action
==========================
Chris Mattmann and Jukka Zitting are writing a Manning book called "Tika in
Action", and it is progressing steadily. We have completed our 1/3 book
review and the book is now available [8] through Manning's Early Access
Program or MEAP.

IBM Developerworks Article on Tika
==================================
Chris Mattmann and Oleg Tikhonov published a short IBM Developerworks intro
article on Tika [9].

[1] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-459
[2] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-462
[3] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-394
[4] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-460
[5] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-463
[6] MID: AANLkTinayUCu9pgv8p-ds3SFFMxjpCMLGkxhMTQiTFm7@mail.gmail.com
[7] http://sunset.usc.edu/classes/cs572_2010/
[8] http://manning.com/mattmann/
[9] http://s.apache.org/FXa


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Traffic Server Project

The TS community is continuing work on closing all new feature
requests and bugs for a v2.2 release. No date has been set for this
release, but we are still aiming for a "late summer" target. No
other releases have been made in the last month.

The Traffic Server community is pleased to report the addition of
two new committers and PMC members this month! The community is
vibrant, and we see a steady increase in interest and attention from
both users and developers.

Our CI infrastructure is continuously improving, with additions of
Solaris and Fedora Core buildbots. This is in addition to our
existing Ubuntu and FreeBSD builds. Props to infra ops for providing
these critical services!

Apache Traffic Server was presented at Velocity 2010, and another
presentation is planned for OSCon 2010.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the July 21, 2010 board meeting.
