
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                          February 18, 2004


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at 10:03
    when a quorum was recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held by
    teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Mark Cox
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik (arrived 10:12)
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie (arrived 10:08)
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Brian Behlendorf

    Guests:

        Chuck Murcko (Treasurer)
        Davanum Srinivas (arrived 10:20)

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of November 16, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Brian Behlendorf]

    B. The meeting of January 21, 2004

       CVS - board/board_minutes_2004_01_21.txt
       Approved by General Consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg reported that he has been pleased with the current
       status of the foundation.  He noted the number of PMCs
       being started (either via the Incubator or moving up
       to TLPs), which indicates a healthy and growing
       community.

    B. President [Dirk]

       NAI: All but trademark sorted. Sander Striker, now on
       the board has effectively taken this over.

       Infrastructure: Sander and I had a chat with Surfnet;
       gigabit bandwidth there to be had for free at the major
       exchange location. Size and power not an issue. Within
       30 minutes from 3+ people willing to do admin work. HP 
       hardware in the process of being donated. CLA and
       account adding protocol better/functional; but both
       word and workflow need to be more in front of PMCs.
       UL colo power issues continue. Mail worms keep coming,
       JIRA adoption is going well; 5 more codebases were
       migrated. 

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

       Contributions have tailed off since the end of last year.
       Contributions total for last month is approximately $500.00.
       Almost all of this has been via PayPal.

       We are still awaiting a response from UL concerning EFT for
       colo fees.

       Current balances (as of 01/21/2004):

       Paypal           $2974.88
       Checking          $241.81 
       Premium Mkt.   $103334.49

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Nothing special to report this month.  We are continuing to
       receive CLAs,  and the number of committers without signed
       CLAs is steadily decreasing.  Even so, it looks like there will
       be several accounts "closed" by the deadline.

       No status on obtaining a conferencing service specifically
       for the ASF.
       
       There was a question whether the current method of handling
       CLAs is placing an undue burden on the secretary.  Jim
       reported that once this "hump" is over, things should settle
       back down to reasonable levels.

 5. Special Orders

    A. Appoint a new Jakarta PMC Chair

        WHEREAS, the membership of the Jakarta Project Management
        Committee (PMC) have recommended Geir Magnusson Jr. to serve as
        chairman of the Jakarta PMC; and

        WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Jakarta PMC,
        Sam Ruby, has stepped down from his position as Vice President,
        Jakarta, in favor of Geir Magnusson Jr.'s appointment to that
        position.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Geir Magnusson Jr. be and
        hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Jakarta,
        to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
        Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
        death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
        until a successor is appointed.

       This was approved via Unanimous Vote.

    B. Establish Gump PMC

        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
        interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
        Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
        Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
        open-source software related to continuous integration, for
        distribution at no charge to the public.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
        Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Gump PMC", be and
        hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and
        be it further

        RESOLVED, that the Apache Gump PMC be and hereby is responsible
        for the creation and maintenance of software related to
        promotion and facilitation of automated integration of the
        software produced by other projects, based on software licensed
        to the Foundation; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Gump" be
        and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve
        at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
        Apache Gump PMC, and to have primary responsibility for
        management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
        of the Apache Gump PMC; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
        hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
        Apache Gump PMC:

          Adam Jack <ajack@apache.org>
          Stefan Bodewig <bodewig@apache.org>
          Davanum Srinivas <dims@apache.org>
          Leo Simons <leosimons@apache.org>
          Martin van den Bemt <mvdb@apache.org>
          Nick Chalko <nickchalko@apache.org>
          Nicola Ken Barozzi <nicolaken@apache.org>
          Scott Sanders <sanders@apache.org>
          Stefano Mazzocchi <stefano@apache.org>

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Stefan Bodewig
        be and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President,
        Apache Gump, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
        direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
        Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
        disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
        further

        RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Gump PMC be and hereby is
        tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
        encourage open development and increased participation in the
        Apache Gump Project; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Gump PMC be and hereby is
        tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
        Jakarta PMC Gump subproject; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Jakarta
        Gump sub-project encumbered upon the Apache Jackarta PMC be
        herewith considered discharged.

       Approved by Unanimous Vote.

    C. Establish Portals PMC

        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
        interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
        Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
        Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
        open-source software related to portal software development
        tools which are predicated on the use of portals, for
        distribution at no charge to the public.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
        Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Portals PMC", be
        and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
        and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the Apache Portals PMC be and hereby is
        responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
        related to creation and maintenance of open-source software
        related to Portal software development tools based on software
        licensed to the Foundation; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Portals"
        be and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
        serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
        of the Apache Portals PMC, and to have primary responsibility
        for management of the projects within the scope of
        responsibility of the Apache Portals PMC; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
        hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
        Apache Portals PMC:

         Jeremy Ford <jford@apache.org>
         Santiago Gala <sgala@apache.org>
         Stefan Hepper <sthepper@apache.org>
         Julie MacNaught <jmacna@apache.org>
         Davanum Srinivas <dims@apache.org>
         David Sean Taylor <taylor@apache.org>
         Scott Weaver <weaver@apache.org>
         Carsten Ziegeler <cziegeler@apache.org>

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Santiago Gala be
        and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
        Portals, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
        direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
        Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
        disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
        further

        RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Portals PMC be and hereby is
        tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
        encourage open development and increased participation in the
        Portals Project; and be it further

        RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Portals PMC be and hereby is
        tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
        Jakarta PMC Jetspeed, Pluto, WSRP4J subprojects; and be it
        further

        RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Jakarta
        Jetspeed sub-project and encumbered upon the Apache Jakarta PMC
        are herewith considered discharged.

       Approved by Unanimous Vote.

    D. Discussion: copyright ownership

       Although initiated due to the current efforts for Spam Assassin,
       the board discussed at length the issues and guidelines regarding
       copyright ownership for the ASF.  It was agreed that all files
       should have 1 single copyright to the ASF.  Copyrights extend
       to the work as a whole, and the ASF must have these.  The
       use of the CHANGES files should note any "history" regarding
       copyrights and that the use of 'author' tags should be
       discouraged for this and other reasons.

    E. Discussion: confirm March 1 deadline for CLAs

       March 1 was confirmed as the deadline for the receipt of
       CLAs before CVS accounts are disabled.

    F. Discussion: what to do about old SA releases (under the GPL/PAL)

       It was agreed that providing links to external locations for
       old versions of SA (Spam Assassin), until an official
       ASF release of SA would be in the best interest of the
       community.  As soon as the 1st ASF release of SA is available,
       the ASF shall remove all links to the old versions.  At not
       point will old versions be hosted or available via ASF
       infrastructure.

    G. Resolution to separate PHP from the Apache Software Foundation
    
        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors considers the Apache PHP
        Project to have built a successful community for the
        development, maintenance, and support of and for the PHP
        software and environment; and
       
        WHEREAS, the Apache Software Foundation would need to make
        changes within the PHP codebases, licensing, and community to
        bring it into alignment with the other Foundation projects and
        to bring it within the legal umbrella of the Foundation; and
       
        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors considers this would be harmful
        to the Apache PHP Project and its community and providing few
        benefits.
       
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache PHP Project PMC
        is hereby terminated; and be it further
       
        RESOLVED, that the Foundation will work with the PHP Group to
        grant all rights and responsibilities of the Foundation
        pertaining to the PHP codebases to the PHP Group.

       Via Unanimous Vote, the above resolution to seperate PHP
       from the ASF, was approved.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill]

       See Attachment A

       It was noted that 3 committers do not have signed CLAs on
       file due to company concerns.  This would be addressed
       via Email.

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    B. Apache Cocoon Project [Steven Noels]

       See Attachment B

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    C. Apache HTTP Server Project [Sander Striker]

       See Attachment C

       The disposition of mod_mbox and mod_pop3 were discussed.
       It was noted that these 2 modules were assigned to the ASF
       and so their License needs to be updated to AL 2.0.

       Approved via General Consent.

    D. Apache Logging Project [Ceki Gülcü]

       See Attachment D
       
       No report

    E. Apache Perl Project [Doug MacEachern]

       See Attachment E

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    F. Apache XML Project [Berin Lautenbach]

       See Attachment F

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    G. Fund-raising Committee [Chuck Murcko]

       See Attachment G

       The idea of a corporate sponsorship, similar to that
       used by the Python Software Foundation, was re-opened.
       Greg noted that since he had a large part in that effort
       for the PSF, he would look into it for the ASF.

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    H. Apache Avalon Project [J. Aaron Farr]

       See Attachment H

       Approved via General Consent.

    I. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas]

       See Attachment I

       Approved via General Consent.
 
    J. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl]

       See Attachment J

       Approved via General Consent.

    K. Security Team [Ben Laurie]

       See Attachment K

       It was noted that new PMCs need to be aware of the
       Security Team and must ensure that they work with the
       team.

       Approved via General Consent.
 
 7. Unfinished Business

 8. New Business

    It was noted that Dirk will follow up on the HP Apache
    trademark usage.  It appears that HP is incorrectly using
    the Apache mark.
    
    OSI was sent a copy of Al 2.0 and recommended that it
    be formally approved.
    
    Ken noted that he is working on the trademarking issue for
    the feather and other ASF marks.

 9. Announcements

    A. Subversion 1.0 will be released Monday, February 23rd.
       Infrastructure is going to start assisting PMCs with
       conversions from CVS.

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PST -0800.  Adjourned at
    11:42.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

o Ant 1.6

Ant 1.6 was released on December 18th, 2003

This was a major release containing a lot of new functionality. Overall the
release has been very smooth with not many reported problems. It is hard
to gauge how many users have upgraded. Many bug reports still come for
Ant 1.5.x releases. This is probably due to the stability of Ant and
may also be due to other issues such as most IDE integrations are based
on Ant 1.5

o Ant 1.6.1 Beta 1

A beta for a follow up release was released on January 29th 2004. The
current target is to release Ant 1.6.1 on February 12th, 2004. It
addresses the few major issues raised with Ant 1.6

o Ant 1.7

There is currently not much activity on the CVS head that will become
Ant 1.7 at some point in the future. One goal is to have the manual
generated from the code rather than maintained by hand as is done currently.

o Apache License 2.0

The Ant codebase (both head and the 1.6 branch) have been upgraded to the
new Apache 2.0 license. There are a small number of non-Java files which
remain to be updated. Even though not required to meet the board mandate,
Ant 1.6.1 will be released with the new license.

o PMC membership

Antoine L?vy-Lambert and Peter Reilly were added to the PMC in November.
At the same time, Diane Holt and Donald Leslie were removed from active
membership of the PMC.

o New committers

Jose Alberto-Fernandez was added as a committer in December.

o Legal Issues

CLAs are missing for a few Ant committers. There are three broad categories.
   Currently active committers. I believe there to be about 3 of these, and
       these cannot sign due to employer issues
   Inactive committers who are Ant committers primarily due to their
       membership of Tomcat when Ant was moved out of Tomcat and who have
       not actually contributed significantly to Ant itself
   Inactive committers who have contributed some significant components to
       Ant.

The PMC has resolved to trim Ant committers to those who are currently
active. I will send emails to all non-active committers soon and thereafter
remove them from avail.

I am concerned, however by the suggestion that code contributed by
committers who do not have a CLA on file, be removed. This will be
an extremely difficult process.

o Other Issues

I have asked on infrastructure list and raised an issue on bugzilla to
properly archive the Myrmidon codebase
(http://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=26015)

Peter Donald has indicated he no longer wishes to have the codebase
active as it is not maintained but still generates questions for him.
The Ant PMC has agreed to archive the codebase and need a little help
from infrastructure team to do that properly. Some action would be
appreciated.

A developer of a commercial SCM system recently approached Ant to have
their tasks integrated into the Ant codebase. The general Ant policy
in recent times is to discourage such contributions and suggest that the
tasks be distributed with the product in question. Nevertheless this
represents an historical imbalance as other commercial SCM systems
are supported by the main Ant codebase (SourceSafe, perforce,
starteam, etc). While these were not developed by the companies
involved, the issue remains.

Bugs reports remain a concern. While the true bug reports are under
control, enhancement requests have ballooned over the last 6 months.

o Community

No discord to report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Community project:

- A reformulation of the Cocoon project mission statement has been sent
to the board for approval - pending.
- Guidelines are (still) under construction (but given the
even-mindedness of the Cocoon community, and our debate/consensus
culture they are hardly being missed).
- Wiki still resides outside ASF infrastructure, there's some W-I-P
happening on a JSPWiki->moinmoin translator in a silent corner. The
intention is to move all core logistical tools onto supported ASF
machinery.

Cocoon:

- The last ASL 1.1-licensed Cocoon release had been done on Friday 13th
Feb 2004 (2.1.4) - upcoming releases, also of legacy branches, will be
done using the new license.
- FirstFridays (a monthly online bug-fixing fest) are becoming a
welcome established tradition.
- A lot of work has been done on the Cocoon Forms framework, and
alternative frameworks will now be actively deprecated.
- The Pipelines-Flow-Woody trio quietly becomes the mainstream way of
using Cocoon.
- The 2.2 codebase is moving on, relatively few but regular
contributors.
- More systematic and structured use of bugzilla helps us get a clearer
picture of what's happening.
- Three new committers since mid-October 2003: Unico Hommes, Timothy
Larson and Daniel Fagerstrom.

Lenya:

- First 'outside', active committer has been attracted and voted upon
(Rolf Kulemann).
- W-I-P on their second ASF-based release is ongoing.
- There's good efforts underway to continuously integrate between Lenya
& Cocoon.
- Stale publication types are being deprecated.
- Legal issues with outside codebases have been eradicated.
- Incubation ongoing - no specific issues to report.

Legal:

- The situation with the Rhino fork Cocoon depends on still needs to be
tackled - Rhino's murky legal past doesn't help a lot with that, and
very few committers have time and energy to tackle this.
- We have been on an active pursuit of having CLAs on file for all
Cocoon committers. We are aware of the fact that non-compliance could
mean future lock-out.

Apart from some small nits, the Apache Cocoon project is both legally
and community-wise very healthy - or aiming for achieving this future
healthiness - and no issues are expected in the near future.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

Basically nothing of significance to report to the Board from the HTTP
Server project for last quarter.  No legal issues, no quarrels, few
releases.

There have been a few mod_python releases (3.0.4, 2.7.9 and 2.7.10).

The documentation end is busy as always, as is httpd-test.

There have been two proposals for code donations which are currently
under review.

We've gained a few committers during last period.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Logging Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- Releases --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

No new mod_perl 1.x releases since the last report.

---

The mod_perl 1.99 series is a development track designed to become
mod_perl 2.0; it works with httpd 2.0.x.

mod_perl-1.99_11 was released on Nov 10, 2003 and mod_perl-1.99_12 on
Dec 22, 2003

---

Apache::Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications.

Apache::Test 1.06 was released on Nov 10, 2003, and 1.07 was released
on Dec 22, 2003.

-- Development --

Development on mod_perl 2.0 and Apache::Test is moving at a healthy
pace. The collaboration with Perl developers, much needed since
mod_perl is quite tied to Perl's internals, has been excellent.

-- Users --

As always the mod_perl user list is thriving. Usage is growing
steadily, with 1.5M or 4.7M sites depending on which survey you look
at.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache XML Project

General Comments

As requested by the Board, the XML Project has been looking at ways to
improve oversite within the project.

Much discussion has occurred in the PMC list around the proposal for
federating the XML project. A vote has been undertaken over the last
few weeks within the PMC to determine in-principle support this
proposal (13 +1s, 1 -0, no -1s).

The proposal is attached as Appendix A. The XML Project requests that
the board consider this proposal. Should this be acceptable, the XML
PMC will look to implement the plan over the coming quarter.

Should it go ahead, this will be an interesting experiment in
cooperation between multiple TLPs. If it works well, it could lead to
the XML project becoming a community that other Apache TLPs use to
foster new ideas, cross-polination and new projects. It is also a
recognition that most of the sub-projects in XML have active, thriving
developer communities that require no additional oversite from an
"external" PMC.

PMC

The PMC has been concentrating on the board request to increase
oversite. Some discussion on the Apache 2.0 license has also occurred
as the sub-projects work on converting over.

Issues needing attention:

  Re-Licensing

    The migration to the Apache 2.0 license has turned out to be a
    useful way to uncover discrepencies in code licensing. Some code
    has been found in the Xindice code base that didn't go through a
    software grant process. Similarly, some Sun code was found in
    Xalan-J (looks like it was there in the initial code import). In
    the latter case, it was determined the 2 files are not used within
    Xalan-J, and the code was immediately removed from CVS by
    infrastructure@apache. In the former case, the Xindice team is
    following up with the owners of the code to formalise their
    donation.

  Commons

    We need to ask our JCP rep (or the board/licensing opinion?) about
    shipping JCP-derived interface-only releases - do they need to
    certify passing of the relevant TCK or not? Commons would like to
    ship some updated versions of the popular xml-apis.jar file,
    however it includes the interface files (but not any
    implementations) of the JAXP spec. If we only ship the interface,
    do we still have to pass the TCK? (<i>This may have been answered
    before, but I don't recall where).

    Note that Xalan and Xerces - which re-ship xml-apis.jar with their
    own implementations of JAXP - should already be independently
    passing the TCK.

-- Axkit

AxKit is trying to move towards a 1.6.3 release (we might call it 1.7)
to include a few bug fixes, but most importantly to migrate to the new
Apache 2.0 license.

Work continues on AxKit 2.0 (to fit around the Apache 2.0 httpd).

We are currently battling against porn spammers adding links to our
Wiki. We have put some measures in place to prevent this so we hope to
see this situation improving soon (it's certainly got my goat!).

-- Batik

Working on bug fixes and patches in preparation of the next stable
release, 1.5.1.

-- Commons

No releases; very quiet on the xml-commons front. We do have some
committers from Xerces and Xalan with interest in working on updating
the common xml-apis that they (and many other ASF projects) share, but
have not yet fully organized the volunteers. This may become a minor
support issue with different projects getting slightly different XML
interfaces, although it should be easy to fix them.

Our previous Resolver release is proving to be popular, now officially
shipping in Xerces as well as other products.

Also: see the TCK issue under legal at the top of the report.

-- FOP

There were talks about the possibility of FOP and Batik to share some
code and to go together under a new PMC (code-named "XML Graphics",
see XML Federation Proposal).

No releases, but the redesign has finally gained some momentum
again. Three new committers: Finn Bock, Chris Bowditch and Andreas
L. Delmelle. On the other side of the equation we lost a committer due
to infighting.

[ Editors Note - The loss of a committer in the sub-project was
  discussed inside the PMC. Whilst noy happy about the loss of a
  committer in such circumstances, the PMC is comfortable that the FOP
  developers are working through the issues ]

-- Forrest

Forrest has been progressing slowly but steadily towards 0.6, kept
afloat by the usual small band of developers. Changes include:

    * almost all copying during build has been eliminated
    * many skin improvements, and a new skin (tigris-style) has been added
    * skin configuration is more flexible
    * Javasrc from Alexandria provisionally adopted in the scratchpad
    * Forrestbot2 nearly ready for general use
    * Build system refactorings 

Ross Gardler was voted in as committer in December. Updating to ASL
2.0 has been discussed but not yet implemented (no problems
anticipated).

-- Xalan-C++

Xalan-C++ 1.7 became available on January 19, 2004.

Xalan-C++ version 1.7 is an implementation of the W3C Recommendations
for XSL Transformations (XSLT) Version 1.0 and the XML Path Language
(XPath) Version 1.0. It was tested for compatible with the Xerces-C++
XML parser version 2.4.0.

Changes for this release include:

    * Bug fixes
    * Message localization support
    * Build improvements
    * New EXSLT functions 

Details are at http://xml.apache.org/xalan-c/readme.html.

A new committer, Matthew Hoyt, was nominated and voted in as a
committer on Xalan-C++ in December 2003.

-- Xalan-J/XSLTC

The committers continue to fix reported bugs. Voting has started on
the having a new release, 2.6.0 in the near future.

A new committer, Bhakti Mehta was nominated and voted in as a
committer on Xalan-Java in January.

-- Xerces-C++

2.4.0 was released in Dec, 2003, with lots of bug fixes, performance
enhancements, and new features such as PSVI support, stateless grammar
and grammar serialization/deserializaton.

2.5.0 is to be released in weeks.

-- Xerces-J

It's been a relatively busy time in the Xerces-J subproject since the
last report in November. On November 21, 2003, we released Xerces-J
2.6.0 which included the finalization of the XML Schema API (which was
recently published as a W3C Member Submission), as well as
implementing: DOM L3 Core & Load/Save? CR, XML 1.1 PR, Namespaces in
XML 1.1 PR and SAX 2.0.1. On Jan. 30, Xerces-J 2.6.1 was released,
featuring support for OASIS XML Catalogs, well-formedness checking for
LSSerializer (DOM Level 3) and an experimental implementation of the
XML Inclusions (XInclude) W3C Last Call Working Draft excluding
support for XPointer. XML Catalogue support was implemented by
leveraging the XML Commons 1.1 component, the jar of which we now
distribute. The committers also decided that this would be the last
Xerces-J release that will run on JDK 1.1.

We also added a new committer, Kohsuke Kawaguchi.

-- Xerces-P

Only minor work has been done this quarter. There were a number of
major memory leaks reported for the latest version of the code that
have not been tracked down. It was first determined that these were
not the fault of Xerces-C.

Due to important bug fixes in the upcoming Xerces-C-2.5 release no
attempt is being made to release Xerces-P-2.4, but instead we will
focus on making 2.5 available.

-- Xindice

Thanks to the impressive work of Vadim, Xindice has finally a
1.1. release on radar. A beta has been officially released already,
and work is progressing steadily, even if it's mostly a one man show
(but thanks so much anyway!) of Vadim.

Code is being migrated to ASL 2.0 license, which raised a possibly
important legal issue about a previous donation of an Eclipse GUI
(Attrezzo for Xindice) which didn't seem to follow the proper way of
entering Apache: this needs to be sorted out ASAP and, in any case,
before the final release.

Finally, no new committers were added from the last board report.

-- XML-Security

Only minor activity in the last quarter. Bug fixes and moving code to
new license.

We have also sent e-mails to BIS notifying them of our intent to
release encryption code.

The current plan is to release betas of the Java and C++ libraries
with Encryption code this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Fund-raising Committee

There has been healthy activity on the fundraising committee. Prospects
being explored include contribution of UPS units from APC, registration
for contributions from donated old cars (via several salvage companies),
a new web site design submission for ASF (for which Nicola has
volunteered the Forrest site as test bed), and exploration of a donation
from HP.

We have advised Intradot (French Linux distributor) to add a link to our
contributions page as part of their documentation.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Avalon Project

Highlight of Events from mid-December through mid-February
==========================================================

  * Berin Loritsch stepped down as PMC Chair;
    Aaron Farr was appointed in his place

  * Vote and acceptance of Andreas Oberhack as committer

  * Vote passed for Timothy Bennett as committer

  * Merlin 3.2.5 and related components released

  * MerlinDeveloper graduates from Incubator;
    First beta releases of the IDE plugin have been made

  * ASL 2.0 applied to Avalon framework sources

  * Avalon adopts JIRA for issue tracking

  * Extended proposal and vote on adding a "MutableConfiguration"
    interface to the framework API -- the vote eventually passed
    and while discussions never became very heated, it points out
    we can still improve the efficacy of our proposal and voting
    process.

  * jicarilla.org requested to use the terms:
     "Avalon-Framework compatible"
     "Avalon-Fortress compatible"
    The PMC determined that jicarilla.org's current wording
    on the website falls within appropriate usage.  The request
    pointed out the need for a more formal TCK.  I should point
    out that jicarilla.org is run by Avalon developer Leo Simons.

Plans for the next quarter
==========================

  * Audit of committer CLA's
    Nine of our 34 committers have not signed CLA's. Most of these
    have not been active in Avalon recently.

  * ASL 2.0
    We've applied the ASL 2.0 to only some of our subprojects.
    In addition to updating the source code, we need to look
    into the matter of our charter which explicitly mentions to
    ASL 1.1 text.

  * Project Roadmaps
    By taking advantage of tools such as JIRA, the Avalon
    community hopes to create and publish more thorough roadmaps
    for coming months and year.

  * Cooperation with External Projects
    Software projects similar to Avalon (usually called "IoC
    Frameworks") have been gaining attention in developer journals
    and news web sites.  We hope to both compete and cooperate
    in this environment.

Closing Remarks
===============

As Greg Stein mentioned shortly after my appointment as Chair, I am a
bit of a new face to Apache and not well known outside of the Avalon
community.  I began using Avalon in 2002 and became a committer in
2003.  I originally worked on testing and bug fixes to our Avalon
Fortress container as well as our newer Merlin container, though
lately I've been more involved in documentation and assisting with our
wiki and JIRA installations.

I witnessed some of the problems with which the Avalon community
struggled and am confident we are moving forward.  There has been a
bit of a "changing of the guard" amongst the committers exemplified by
my appointment as PMC Chair.  Much of the current development is the
work of committers all brought in within the last year.  This "new
blood" is bringing quite a bit of energy to the project and I am
looking forward to what we will bring about this year.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache James Project

What code releases have been made?
James 2.2a15 was released, which is a release candidate from the 2.1
branch.  This release could probably be made final, but energies have
been concentrated on 3.0 merger or other subprojects.

Legal issues:
We've tracked down CLAs for all committers.  We will be adopting the 2.0
license shortly.  We will be growing the PMC to add active committers.

Cross-project issues:
None

Plans and expectations for next
1. Migrate from bugzilla to JIRA.
2. Adopt 2.0 license
3. Grow PMC by adding active committers
4. Establish JSieve as new module in SVN (discussed below)
5. Finish merging 2.x and 3.0 branches

JSieve:
We have an incoming project from one of our committers.  It is a Java
implementation of the Sieve protocol, which is kind of a script notation
for email processing.  It's an IETF RFC and could be used for
server-wide or per-user processing.  It could help with some of James
configuration challenges, but could also be used outside of James, so we
are making it a separate codebase.

It is solely written by him, so we expect a simple code import to a new
module.  We are more than likely going to use SVN to get everyone
comfortable using it and identify any migration requirements.

We will likely split out the mailet API into a separate codebase as
we've been meaning to do this for some time, and will follow what we do
with JSieve.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

o New projects

MBoot:
A few Java classes and some bash functions which can build a Maven
project using a Maven POM without actually using Maven itself. This was
created in order to create a coherent bootstrap process for Maven2, but
it is generally useful but only works where bash is available. Using
MBoot would in fact allow projects like Gump to build Maven projects
without having to build Maven. For projects that don't use any plugins
as part of the build process MBoot works just fine.

Mevenide:
Some arrangements have been made to bring the Mevenide project from SF
under the Maven umbrella. Mevenide is an Eclipse extension that allows
Maven and Eclipse to interoperate. The members of the Mevenide team have
sent in their CLAs and I've drafted the proposal for the incubator.
Passed by the Maven PMC.

Javasrc:
I was approached by Dims about bring the Javasrc project from Jakarta
Alexandria into Maven. The code would be used to replace the current JXR
code for source cross referencing. Passed by the Maven PMC. Dims has
taken care of things on the Jakarta Alexandria end.

o PMC Changes

No new additions to the PMC.

Dion Gillard stepped down from the PMC.

o New Committers

No new committers.

o Goings on

We're just about to release rc2 (probably today actually) and there
aren't really many more changes to make so we're hoping that 1.0 will be
released within the month as well. Once this is done daily builds of
Maven2 will start to hit the streets.

---

Work on the Maven book for O'Reilly is progressing, there has been some
user feedback and a quick list of articles that will be present in the
book can be found here:

http://wiki.codehaus.org/maven/BookArticles

---

I have submitted a proposal to OSCON

http://conferences.oreillynet.com/os2004/

on Maven for the Java Track so I imagine that will go through so Brett,
Michal, Emmanuel and myself are going to try and hook up there if
possible.

---

Work on Maven2 is progressing, Emmanuel and I have been working out some
kinks in the last week but the new code bootstraps and performs the
basic functions of Maven1. It is entirely component-based and the entire
base distribution rings in at under 500k, is deadly fast and does not
require Ant or Jelly for its basic operations of building, compiling,
testing or packaging.

Now that the basic core of Maven2 functions, the four core folks
involved (myself, Brett, Michal, Emmanuel) are trying to work out the
nitty gritty details before releasing a pre-alpha for public
consumption.

I have also been in contact with Carsten Ziegler, of Cocoon, who is
working on a tool which is akin to Jelly but undoubtedly will work
better. So hopefully that will pan out, the code looks good at any rate:

http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/osoco/tempo/

---

On a personal note, I have quit my day job to take a year off to work on
Maven. The book for O'Reilly, Maven itself and synergistic projects like
Plexus and Surefire:

http://cvs.codehaus.org/viewcvs.cgi/plexus/?root=codehaus

http://cvs.codehaus.org/viewcvs.cgi/surefire/?root=codehaus

I also plan to work on GUI tools (free and commerical) for Maven and for
the free stuff I have acquired an OSS license for the JIDESoft
components which are used primarily for creating IDE like tools:

http://www.jidesoft.com/company/index.htm


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Security Team

As discussed at the last board meeting, there's little to report on
the security team front, except that we continue to deal with incoming
reports by forwarding to the appropriate team, and we continue to not
do a fantastic job with the less critical problems - critical ones are
dealt with promptly, as always, but others are quite often dropped on
the floor until outside forces refocus our attention.

Although I don't see this as an enormous problem, it would be nice to
find a way to fix it. Sadly, with volunteer effort, it is hard to
do. I have idly wondered if it might be a suitable item for corporate
sponsorship (i.e. providing the monitoring/tracking/ass-kicking
function).


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the February 18, 2004 board meeting.
