
                    The Apache Software Foundation

         Board of Directors Meeting, Supplemental Information

                          18 September 2002


 The Board of Directors Meetings typically include reports from the
 Project Management Committees. This supplement to the official
 meeting minutes contains the reports that were provided to the Board
 after the meeting concluded. These reports are an important part of
 the operation of the Apache Software Foundation, but cannot be part
 of the formal meeting minutes, so we are including them in this
 supplement to the minutes.


 1. Status Report for the DB Project

    * What code releases have been made?
    Even though the actual site is not public I'll chat a bit about the
    status of the projects that will be involved.

    OJB: 
    Released 0.9.5 

    Axion: 
    Closing in on a 1.0.

    DBCP: Closing in on a 1.0

    * Any legal issues to bring to the board?
    None.

    *Any cross-project issues that need to be addressed?
    None.

    *Any problems with committers, members, etc?
    None.

    * Plans and expectations for the next period?
    The site will be made public as the key projects reach release status.
    OJB is pretty much ready, Axion is very close, DBCP is also close and
    Torque will probably be ready soon as well. I'm not in any particular
    rush to launch the site, I would rather have all the projects be
    released and stable before doing the launch. Things are plodding along
    as per usual.


 2. Status Report for Java Community Process

    Jason Hunter worked with Sun to get explicit permission for publishing
    TCK test results to the web.  It's something we had verbally agreed to
    with Sun before, but it wasn't recorded in a legally binding fashion. 
    We now have on file a signed agreement.

    The JSPA revision that has been years in the making and contains the new
    open source friendly rules is nearing final approval.  The tentative
    launch date is Oct 29th, 2002.  Drafts have been sent to the jcp@
    mailing list for review.  Thus far there are no objections toward its
    passing.

    Had a meeting with Onno, Jon Stevens, and Jason Hunter about JSR-107. 
    This JSR is led by Oracle and Jon's reported numerous problems.  We
    discussed ways to move forward.  The discussion continues.

    The JCP Scholarship Fund to oversee non-profit access to TCKs has been
    setup and publicly announced by Sun:
    http://industry.java.sun.com/javanews/stories/story2/0,1072,47305,00.html

    Very few interesting JSRs have gone through recently.  The EC meeting
    time has been principally spent on how to best market Java.


 3. Status report for Perl Project

    o mod_perl-1.x

    in maintainence mode.

    mod_perl-1.27 is the current release for apache-1.3, released 6/2/02
    nearly a year since 1.26 on 7/11/2001.

    user list continues to be very active on daily basis with users on the
    1.x series.  development/usage of third-party open source
    modules/applications which run on top of mod_perl-1.x continue to be
    very active as well.

    we continue to host the Apache::ASP and HTML::Embperl projects at
    perl.apache.org; two out of many (many!) templating (and more) systems
    for mod_perl.  they are not official ASF projects.

    o mod_perl-2.x

    1.99_05 is the current release working towards 2.0.
    1.99_01 was released a day or two after the first apache 2.0 GA
    release.  the code base is considered stable for use with the prefork
    MPM.  also runs with threaded MPMs, stability depends on Perl 5.8.0
    (release somewhat recently) and third party extensions.
    before the version is bumped to "2.0", there are still a few more
    features missing for complete 1.x compat.  pre-2.0 also means we are
    free to change the api, something that (hopefully) won't happen post-2.0.
    there is no rush to declare "mod_perl-2.0".

    o new perl.apache.org website

    finally a new facelift, much more info, better navigation, etc. and
    most important a supporting team dedicated to the site.

    o docs-split

    the same team who put together the new site are also working on
    documentation for both 1.x and 2.x.

    o usage

    securityspace.com indicates installations have been growing steadily.
    The growth in server installations is probably partly because
    mod_perl is distributed and installed with most of the Linux
    distributions.

    o community

    as has always been in mod_perl land, everybody seems happy and is
    getting along well.  no conflicts other than the occasional (small
    handful each year) misunderstanding or "troll" posting.

    there are steadily around 1700-1800 subscribers to the mod_perl users
    list and a couple of hundred to the development list.
