
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                              16 October 2002


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700 and began when a
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by the
    chairman at 10:15am.  The meeting was held by teleconference
    hosted by Jim Jagielski (Covalent).

    IRC #apacheboard on irc.openprojects.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present at Roll:
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby (arrived at 10:43am)
        Greg Stein
        Bill Stoddard

    Directors Arriving Post Roll:
        Sam Ruby (arrived at 10:43am)

    Directors Absent:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Ben Laurie
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Guests:

        Randy Terbush
        Chuck Murcko
        Jason Hunter (arrived at 10:18am)

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings
 
    A. The minutes to the meeting of 18 September 2002, detailed in
       board_minutes_2002_09_18.txt were approved by unanimous consent.
 
    B. The supplementals to the meeting of 18 September 2002, detailed in
       board_supplement_2002_09_18.txt were approved as publishable
       in content.
 
    C. The minutes to the Special Meeting of 9 October 2002 were not yet
       available to be approved.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       The Foundation is quite healthy overall, with a continuing
       interest and growth in our projects and contributors. There
       have been some challenges recently, however, in that our growth
       seems to have exceeded our current capacity for managing the
       social aspects of the communities. Some committers don't really
       understand what the ASF is all about, and even worse, some do
       not seem to understand our basic ideals of community and
       collaborative development ("the Apache Way" to use an
       oft-bandied-about term). Over the past couple months, this has
       sparked an interest in two new top-level projects (Commons and
       Incubator) as ways to improve our ability to manage projects
       and to create healthy communitys. Meanwhile, a large number of
       people have come together to look hard at our organization and
       several reorganization proposals are being formed and
       discussed. This is a great process, and has brought together a
       number of people who don't normally work together. However, it
       has also hilited some of the misunderstandings and demonstrated
       that some amount of reorg is needed for the ASF to continue on
       its mission of building and supporting development communities.

    B. Treasurer [Chuck & Randy]
       Chuck reported that the switchover from Randy to himself was
       proceeding, with the ASF accounts being transferred to the
       new Ass't Treasurer.  The QuickBooks packages was being shipped
       to Chuck as well.  Chuck also accepted the position as Chair of the
       Fund Raising committee.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim had no news to report other than continued work in getting
       the ASF files in electronic format.  Greg suggested that the
       online committers list be updated to reflect if the ASF has a
       signed CLA on file for that committer.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that at last check, there were 240 attendees
       scheduled for the Conference.  A collection agency has also
       been hired for the registration.  All ASF members have been
       asked to possibly volunteer as session chairs.

    B. Security Team status [Ben]
       Tabled.

    C. Apache Commons Project [Ken]
       Ken reported that work was being done to generate the bylaws
       of the Commons Project.  Discussion on Commons and the 'reorg'
       list also made it clear that an ASF incubator was likely
       warranted.
    
 6. Special Orders

    A. Jason Hunter has requested the appointment of a new JCP
       representative.  By unanimous consent, Geir Magnusson Jr.
       was appointed the ASF's official Representative, with Chuck
       Murcko acting as official Alternate.

    B. It was reported the the ASF Members Meeting would be held on
       November 18th, in the evening. This is to be held at ApacheCon,
       after the scheduled Hackathon dates of November 17th and 18th.

    C. Reestablish Apache Portable Runtime Project
    
       The following resolution was proposed:

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of open-source software related to the Apache
          Portable Runtime (APR) products, for distribution at no charge
          to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
          Committee, to be known as the "APR PMC", be and hereby is
          established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the APR PMC be and hereby is responsible
          for the creation and maintenance of software related to the APR
          software product based on software licensed to the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
          appointed to serve as the members of the APR PMC.

              Greg Ames         Aaron Bannert       Jim Blandy
              Ryan Bloom        Branko Cibej        Ken Coar
              Ralf Engelschall  Justin Erenkrantz   Brian Fitzpatrick
              Karl Fogel        Brian Havard        Ian Holsman
              Jim Jagielski     Ben Laurie          Chuck Murcko
              Brian Pane        David Reid          Bill Rowe
              Wilfredo Sanchez  Sascha Schumann     Greg Stein
              Bill Stoddard     Sander Striker      Ben Collins-Sussman
              Jeff Trawick      Cliff Woolley

          WHEREAS, the membership of the APR PMC have nominated
          Cliff Woolley to serve as chair of the APR PMC; and

          WHEREAS, the current chair of the APR PMC, Ryan Bloom,
          has resigned his position as Vice President, APR, in favor of
          Cliff Woolley's appointment to that position.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Cliff Woolley be and
          hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, APR,
          to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
          Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
          resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
          successor is appointed.

       By Unanimous Vote, the above Resolution reestablishing the Apache
       Portable Runtime Project, was passed.

    D. Apache Incubator Project

       The following two resolutions had been proposed:

       Resolution R1 (drafted by Ken):

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with accepting new projects into the
       Foundation, fostering such projects and providing guidance and
       support to help them develop communities, and educating new
       developers in the details and ramifications of working
       according to the Foundation's philosophies and requirements
       (the 'Apache Way'), including issues of copyright and
       licensing;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Incubator PMC", be
       and hereby is established pursuant to the Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the acceptance and oversight of projects and
       codebases, together with their communities, submitted and
       proposed to become part of the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC is charged with
       providing guidance and ensuring that projects under its purview
       operate according to the Foundation's goals and philopsophies;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC is responsible for
       evaluating projects under its purview and making the
       determination in each case of whether it should be abandoned,
       or is healthy and should continue to receive guidance and
       support, or is healthy and mature and ready to become part of
       an existing Foundation project or a new project in its own
       right; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Incubator"
       be and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache Incubator PMC, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the projects within the scope of
       responsibility of the Apache Incubator PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Incubator PMC:

              Aaron Bannert
              Nicola Ken Barozzi
              Ken Coar
              B. W. Fitzpatrick
              Jim Jagielski
              Greg Stein
              Sander Striker

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Incubator, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Incubator PMC be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Incubator Project.

       -------------
       Resolution R2 (drafted by Roy):

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
       purpose to establish a Project Management Committee charged with
       accepting new products into the Foundation, providing guidance
       and support to help each new product engender their own
       collaborative community, educating new developers in the
       philosophy and guidelines for collaborative development as
       defined by the members of the Foundation, and proposing to the
       board the promotion of such products to independent PMC
       status once their community has reached maturity.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Incubator PMC", be
       and hereby is established pursuant to the Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the acceptance and oversight of new products
       submitted or proposed to become part of the Foundation;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC is responsible for
       providing guidance and ensuring that subprojects under its
       purview develop products according to the Foundation's philosophy
       and guidelines for collaborative development; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC is responsible for
       regularly evaluating products under its purview and making the
       determination in each case of whether the product should be
       abandoned, continue to receive guidance and support, or
       proposed to the board for promotion to full project status
       as part of an existing or new Foundation PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Incubator"
       be and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache Incubator PMC, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the subprojects within the scope and
       responsibility of the Apache Incubator PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Incubator PMC:

              Aaron Bannert
              Nicola Ken Barozzi
              Ken Coar
              Roy T. Fielding
              B. W. Fitzpatrick
              Jim Jagielski
              Greg Stein
              Sander Striker

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Incubator, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Incubator PMC be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Incubator Project.

       ================================

       After some discussion regarding the differences between the
       two resolutions, Ken withdrew his resolution.  A vote was held
       on Resolution R2.  By unanimous vote, Resolution R2 passed.

 7. Unfinished Business

    A. STV instead of FPP for members meeting votes
       Tabled.

    B. PeerMetrics proposal for a project based on Rabbit (P2P)
       It was noted that the newly formed Incubator Project would
       handle this.

    C. Sam Ruby was designated to take the action item for talking with
       Rasmus and the PHP project about the relationship between the
       ASF and the PHP Group.  Sam noted that the PHP Group had
       already been discussing this very issue.  Jim noted that, at
       the lowest core, any ASF project must be under the Apache License
       and that the ASF must have copyright of the code.

 8. New Business
    None
    
 9. Announcements
    None

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:00am PDT -0700.  Adjourned at 11:07am.


-----------------------------------------
Attachments

__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 16 Oct 2002 board meeting.
