                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            November 16, 2011


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at
    10:02 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Doug Cutting and Cloudera.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Brett Porter
        Lawrence Rosen (joined at 10:08)
        Sam Ruby

    Directors Absent:

        Greg Stein

    Officers Present:

        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Noirin Plunkett (left at 11:09)
        Chris A. Mattmann (left at 10:53)
        Daniel Kulp
        Tim Ellison (left at 11:00)

    Officers Absent:

        Craig L Russell

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of October 26, 2011

       Minutes were approved by General Consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Doug]

       We had a great face-to-face board meeting in Vancouver.  Thanks
       to Microsoft and Gianugo Rabellino for hosting this.

       After a full days discussion and dinner we better understand
       one another's views about the foundation.  This understanding
       improves our ability to work together on a day-to-day basis and
       is not easy to gain during our monthly conference calls and
       through our mailing list discussions.

       We agreed that we should continue to hold such annual
       face-to-face board meetings, but that it would be better to
       hold them sooner after board elections each year.  We felt that
       OSCON is a good conference to hold these near, as many board
       members already attend.  This is held in Portland, Oregon
       during July.  Thus we decided that board elections should be
       held in April to better give newly elected board members time
       to plan their travel.  We also decided not to hold a "special"
       mid-year meeting to elect members this year, as the board and
       member elections will take place soon enough in April.

    B. President [Jim]

       During the f2f board meeting, we decided to appoint Sam Ruby as VP
       of Infra and maintain, for the time being, that position as an
       independent task. Thanks goes to Microsoft and Gianugo Rabellino for
       providing the meeting space for the meeting.

       I presented the State Of The Feather at ApacheCon NA 2011, a copy
       of which can be found at: http://people.apache.org/~jim/presos/ACNA11

       I believe many of the directors, and indeed members, who attended
       ACNA11 met Melissa, our EA, who performed "booth duty" (as well as
       other tasks, of course) at the Con. Next on her agenda is finalization
       of the ASF Calendar and working on the Annual Report with Sally.

       Thank you to the board for "re-appointing" me as Prez.

       Fine-tuning of the running of the organization is still required and
       I plan on focusing on that in the upcoming month.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]


  REPORT FROM OCT 2011 RE-SUBMITTED FOR DISCUSSION

      Books are up to date as of 10/7/2011. Current (10/26/2011) balances are
      total cash of $765,449.55 at Wells Fargo and $44,782.76 at PayPal.

      All bills are paid.

      Received $40k from Hortonworks, $100k from Yahoo!, $20k from PSW Group, and what
      I think was intended to be $5k from LIIP AG (came in at $4987). The $100k and $40k
      will be in statement of income/expense next month as they deposited post 10/1.

      To Do :
      - GSOC PO
      - tax returns on website


     Statement of Financial Income and Expense - Sept 2011

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                            58.92
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                   24,987.00
              Total Contributions Income                             24,987.00

           Total Income                                              25,045.92

           Expense
              President Discretionary                                    82.95
              Bank Service Charges                                      327.41
              Contract Labor                                          2,308.00
              Licenses and Permits                                      275.00
              Postage and Delivery                                       19.95
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                     518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                    7,622.50
                   Infrastructure Staff                 26,600.00
                Total Infrastructure                           34,740.50

                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                            2,197.26
                   Public Relations Staff                4,545.45
                   Public Relations - Other                300.00
                Total Public Relations                          7,042.71

                Conference Expenses                               694.02
              Total Program Expenses                                 42,477.23

           Total Expense                                             45,490.54

        Net Ordinary Income                                         -20,444.62

     Net Income                                                     -20,444.62

    Statement of Financial Position - As of September 30, 2011

                                                    Sep 30, 11     Sep 30, 10     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Other Expenses                              333.90         333.90          0.00          0.0%
             Other Income                               -411.57        -411.57          0.00          0.0%
             Paypal                                   30,159.58      27,685.86      2,473.72          8.9%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            354,172.53     210,812.75    143,359.78         68.0%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     286,776.12     285,839.54        936.58          0.3%
           Total Checking/Savings                    671,030.56     524,260.48    146,770.08         28.0%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                      20,600.00      65,000.00    -44,400.00        -68.3%
           Total Accounts Receivable                  20,600.00      65,000.00    -44,400.00        -68.3%

        Total Current Assets                         691,630.56     589,260.48    102,370.08         17.4%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    691,630.56     589,260.48    102,370.08         17.4%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Phil Golucci             0.00       3,816.83     -3,816.83       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna              0.00           7.79         -7.79       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                 4,045.13          39.90      4,005.23     10,038.2%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz             -50.00           0.00        -50.00       -100.0%
             Total Credit Cards                        3,995.13       3,864.52        130.61          3.4%

           Total Current Liabilities                   3,995.13       3,864.52        130.61          3.4%

        Total Liabilities                              3,995.13       3,864.52        130.61          3.4%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         780,865.26     626,337.08    154,528.18         24.7%
           Net Income                                -93,229.83     -40,941.12    -52,288.71       -127.7%
        Total Equity                                 687,635.43     585,395.96    102,239.47         17.5%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      691,630.56     589,260.48    102,370.08         17.4%

  REGULAR REPORT FOR NOV 2011

      Books are up to date as of 11/1/2011. Current (11/15/2011) balances are
      total cash of $735,890.83 at Wells Fargo and $50,159.71 at PayPal.

      Bills : 2 pending payment details from payees.

      To Do :
      - GSOC PO
      - tax returns on website

     Statement of Financial Income and Expense - October 2011

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                           60.90 
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                 139,950.00
              Total Contributions Income                           139,950.00

           Total Income                                            140,010.90

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                     404.68
              Contract Labor                                         2,308.00
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                    518.00
                   Infrastructure Staff                 7,100.0
                Total Infrastructure                           7,618.0

                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                             218.37
                   Public Relations Staff               4,545.45
                Total Public Relations                         4,763.82

              Total Program Expenses                                12,381.82

           Total Expense                                            15,094.50

        Net Ordinary Income                                        124,916.40

     Net Income                                                    124,916.40



     Statement of Financial Position - As of October 31, 2011

                                                    Oct 31, 11     Oct 31, 10     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Other Expenses                              333.90         333.90          0.00          0.0%
             Other Income                               -411.57        -411.57          0.00          0.0%
             Paypal                                   30,159.58      30,159.58          0.00          0.0%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            478,314.06     172,623.24    305,690.82        177.1%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     286,837.02     285,936.67        900.35          0.3%
           Total Checking/Savings                    795,232.99     488,641.82    306,591.17         62.7%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                      20,600.00      55,600.00    -35,000.00        -63.0%
           Total Accounts Receivable                  20,600.00      55,600.00    -35,000.00        -63.0%

        Total Current Assets                         815,832.99     544,241.82    271,591.17         49.9%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    815,832.99     544,241.82    271,591.17         49.9%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Phil Golucci             0.00       3,809.83     -3,809.83       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna              0.00           7.79         -7.79       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                 3,331.16       2,681.99        649.17         24.2%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz             -50.00           0.00        -50.00       -100.0%
             Total Credit Cards                        3,281.16       6,499.61     -3,218.45        -49.5%

           Total Current Liabilities                   3,281.16       6,499.61     -3,218.45        -49.5%

        Total Liabilities                              3,281.16       6,499.61     -3,218.45        -49.5%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         780,865.26     626,337.08    154,528.18         24.7%
           Net Income                                 31,686.57     -88,594.87    120,281.44        135.8%
        Total Equity                                 812,551.83     537,742.21    274,809.62         51.1%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      815,832.99     544,241.82    271,591.17         49.9%


       Sam Ruby was appointed Assistant Treasurer by unanimous roll-call
       vote of the Directors present.


    D. Secretary [Craig]

      Filing of incoming agreements continues apace. In October, 61 ICLAs,
      seven CCLAs, and five grants were received and filed. 

      We still receive corporate license agreements on individual license 
      agreement forms, missing or blank pages, and mystery faxes. We still 
      receive ICLAs that do not request to notify a project. 
      But by and large, newly minted committers are getting quick service 
      for their Apache ids.

      Based on a script crafted by Sam Ruby, we now have a cross check 
      on subscribers to the board@ alias. There are two subscribers who 
      are not members who are former PMC chairs; two PMC chairs who are 
      subscribed using email addresses not registered in members.txt; 
      and three PMC chairs who are not subscribed at all. These anomalies 
      are being addressed via private emails.  

    E. Executive Vice President [Noirin]

       [oral report]

       Spent time smoothing feathers for infra--people found out but
       didn't feel they'd been *told* at ApacheCon about the change
       in hats. Also spent time on the phone with Paschal, trying to
       get the credit cards reassigned and give Wells Fargo the info
       they need. That seems to have turned into a big mess, but I
       gather Sam's on it.

    F. Vice Chairman [Greg]

       No report filed

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

       The board discussed whether or not this office should be continued.
       Geir is still trying to get licensing of the TCK's done. General
       discussion as to whether or not the ASF (as an entity) was going to
       continue to claim that Tomcat was a compliant implementation, and
       therefore continue to pursue obtaining TCKs on behalf of the ASF.
       
       AI: Jim to bring this up on the board list.

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Larry]

       See Attachment 3

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Brett]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

       Larry mentioned upcoming work on the WARP PAG.  Sam encouraged this to
       be brought up on the relevant Apache mailing list.

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

       We discussed the ASF policy of not developing, hosting, and
       distributing code, even build scripts, under the GPL.  Further
       discussion on this matter is to go to the legal discuss mailing list.
       
       Larry indicated that he will no longer serve as the ASF
       attorney.

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Doug]

       See Attachment 7

       It was noted that Larry has an existing action item to discuss
       security protocol with this PMC.  Larry indicated that he will
       follow up via e-mail.

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Nick Burch / Greg]

       See Attachment 8

       Report deferred as it was not received in time for adequate review.

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Noirin Plunkett / Jim]

       See Attachment 9

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Jim]

       See Attachment 10

       AI: Jim to inquire about travel insurance.  Gavin responded via
       email that we had previously agreed that insurance as a means to
       re-coup flight costs is not needed, and that TAC encourages
       attendees to obtain insurance and even offers to pay for it.

    Additional officer reports, with the exception of ConCom, approved as
    submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Ant Elder / Roy]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Shane]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Buildr Project [Alex Boisvert / Bertrand]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache C++ Standard Library Project [Martin Sebor / Sam]

       See Attachment D

       No report received.

       Jim's Action Item to assist project's move into the attic was
       reinstated from the August meeting.

    E. Apache Camel Project [Hadrian Zbarcea / Sam]

       See Attachment E

       Jim reports that discussions have settled down and he is
       comfortable with how things are going. Shane plans to follow
       up. Dan reports that additional ASF members have been added to
       the PMC. With the change of chair, we will continue with (at
       least) one more month of monthly reporting.

    F. Apache Cassandra Project [Jonathan Ellis / Shane]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Click Project [Malcolm Edgar / Doug]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Cocoon Project [Simone Tripodi / Brett]

       See Attachment H

       Brett to follow up to determine what is meant by the
       term "C2 maintenance" in this report.

    I. Apache Community Development Project [Ross Gardler / Larry]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Continuum Project [Emmanuel Venisse / Roy]

       See Attachment J

       No report received.

    K. Apache CouchDB Project [Jan Lehnardt / Greg]

       See Attachment K

       It was noted that the community info wasn't present.  Jan indicated
       that the community hadn't changed this month and that he will include
       community info in the next report

    L. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Bertrand]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache HTTP Server Project [Eric Covener / Jim]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache HttpComponents Project [Asankha Perera / Bertrand]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Jim]

       See Attachment O

       Report deferred as it was not received in time for adequate review.

       There were discussions about whether the Incubator and even the
       foundation could continue to scale, and discussions about the failure
       of the Incubator to police the lack of attention by mentors on 
       projects that have been incubating for years.  Follow-up to occur
       on the incubator general mailing list.

    P. Apache jUDDI Project [Kurt Stam / Brett]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Lenya Project [Richard Frovarp / Roy]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Libcloud Project [Tomaz Muraus / Shane]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Doug]

       See Attachment S

    T. Apache Perl Project [Philippe M. Chiasson / Larry]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache POI Project [Yegor Kozlov / Greg]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Sam]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache River Project [Tom Hobbs / Roy]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Jim]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache Santuario Project [Colm O hEigeartaigh / Bertrand]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache Subversion Project [Greg Stein / Shane]

       See Attachment Z

       No report received.

    AA. Apache Turbine Project [Thomas Vandahl / Brett]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Tuscany Project [Ant Elder / Doug]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Velocity Project [Nathan Bubna / Greg]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Whirr Project [Tom White / Sam]

       See Attachment AD

    AE. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Larry]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache Xerces Project [Michael Glavassevich / Shane]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Doug]

       See Attachment AG

       No report received.

       Shane is following up, the issue is the status of XML Common
       files. The board is expecting an attic resolution.

    AH. Apache XML Graphics Project [Simon Pepping / Brett]

       See Attachment AH

       Simon indicated that he hopes to propose a new chair in the next
       month's board meeting.

    AI. Apache Deltacloud Project [David Lutterkort / Sam]

       See Attachment AI

    AJ. Apache JMeter Project [Sebastian Bazley / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AJ

    Committee reports, with the exception of incubator, approved as submitted
    by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Resolution to Change the Apache Camel Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Hadrian
       Zbarcea to the office of Vice President, Apache Camel, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Hadrian Zbarcea from the office of Vice President, Apache
       Camel, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Camel
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Christian Mueller as
       the Successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Hadrian Zbarcea is
       relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of
       the office of Vice President, Apache Camel, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Christian Mueller be and hereby
       is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Camel, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed. 

       Special Order 7A, Resolution to Change the Apache Camel
       Project Chair, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.

    B. Termination of the Apache Harmony PMC

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it no longer in the best
       interest of the Foundation to continue the Apache Harmony
       project due to inactivity

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache Harmony
       project is hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Attic PMC be and hereby is tasked with
       oversight over the software developed by the Apache Harmony
       Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Harmony" is
       hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Harmony PMC is hereby terminated.

       Special Order 7B, Termination of the Apache Harmony PMC,
       Motion passes with a single no vote; Larry wishes it to be
       noted that he is not against termination, he simply would have
       preferred to have more time to work on the messaging.


    C. Resolution to Change the Apache Mahout Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Sean Owen to the
       office of Vice President, Apache Mahout, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Sean Owen from the office of Vice President, Apache Mahout, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Mahout project
       has chosen by vote to recommend Jeff Eastman as the Successor to the
       post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Sean Owen is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of Vice
       President, Apache Mahout, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jeff Eastman be and hereby is appointed
       to the office of Vice President, Apache Mahout, to serve in accordance
       with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors and the
       Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal
       or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7C, Resolution to Change the Apache Mahout
       Project Chair, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.


    D. Resolution to Accept Offer from OSI to become Affiliate

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
       purpose to become an Affiliate of the OSI and to accept the offer
       of the OSI to become such, and
 
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors appoint a person responsible as the
       ASF Delegate in accordance with the ASF's acceptance to become an OSI
       Affiliate,
      
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski be and hereby is
       appointed to the task of ASF delegate to the OSI Affiliate Program,
       to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board
       of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
       successor is appointed.
    
       Special Order 7D, Resolution to Accept Offer from OSI to
       become Affiliate, passes with 1 abstention (Roy).


 8. Discussion Items

    Timeliness of reports remains an issue.  Jim to request that board
    reports be submitted and entered into SVN one week earlier.
    
    Roy and Bertrand discussed the announcement by Adobe that they will
    be contributing Flex. This lead into a discussion as to whether or
    not the ASF has resources to assist with Incubation, and whether or
    not we should be more proactive board/member effort to ensure that
    incubating projects succeed.  No actions were assigned.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Philip: follow up on /dist with Perl PMC
            Status: No change.

    * Bertrand: Discuss Attic with Axis PMC.
            Status: Complete.  Axis will manage the subprojects rather than
                     move them to the attic.

    * Bertrand: ask Mahout PMC chair for a community report next time.
            Status: Complete.

    * Jim: Help Camel PMC with diversity issue.
            Status: Complete.

    * Jim: follow up with Geir and Noirin about Daniel's payments.
            Status: Complete

    * Larry: follow up with the Pivot PMC to clarify trademark status.
            Status: No change.

    * Larry: discuss legal trademark issues with ActiveMQ PMC.
            Status: Shane and Larry to discuss transferring this action
                    to Shane.

    * Larry: discuss security protocol with security PMC.
            Status: No change.

    * Greg: discuss security handling with DB PMC.
            Status: No change.
 
    * Roy: request PMC chair send list of HBase PMC members that have
           not been ACK'd so they can be properly approved
            Status: Complete

    * Craig: see that Olio provenance is complete and start retirement process.
            Status: No change.

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 11:29am (Pacific)


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Nothing to report this month.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

Operations And Community
========================

Robert Burrell Donkin has been doing some great work clarifying and simplifying 
the Incubator's trademark policies to ensure that new podlings are aware of 
brand and naming issues when they enter incubation - many thanks.

While many trademarks policies could still use clarifications or more FAQ 
entries, much of the future work we will likely be doing on branding as 
relates to our own projects will be about best practices or suggested 
guidelines for projects, or for providing branding advice or help to 
projects that ask for it.   

I held a small but very useful Branding & Trademarks Meetup at ApacheCon.
About 15 attendees had a great discussion, both in terms of sharing 
expectations and in terms of answering questions and making suggestions 
for documentation or procedure improvements.  Thanks to all who attended - 
I think I learned as much as everyone else did!

I created an "Apache Software Foundation" Google+ organization page.

External Requests
=================

Several regular trademarks@ participants have been starting to step up to 
answer simple third party questions, which I also appreciate.  We should 
have some more FAQ's available soon that will help in this process (i.e. 
when a simple question that's already covered comes up, any Trademarks 
Committee members should be able to reply with a "please see this FAQ" email.)

Working with the Lucene PMC to provide guidance on their email to a potential 
infringement of the Lucene logo.

Trademark Registrations
=======================

I will be working with VP, Legal to secure appropriate legal counsel (either 
pro bono or paid, as needed) to ensure that our trademark registration needs 
are met, both for the Apache mark and specific requested project marks. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

SPONSORSHIP

Prepared invoice for 2nd half of 2011 payment for Microsoft.

COMMUNITY
There was a big uptick in people interested in contributing.  Certainly
ApacheCon helped trigger some of this, but was a confluence of many factors.
 Here are some of the highlights from these activities:

Daniel Shahaf, Phil Steitz, and Gavin McDonald have each discussed and begun
contributing on the list.  This is prompting a re-org of my tasks to make
them more distributed.  So we've got...

All my 2011 invoices (PDF and Word) committed to financial/Invoices svn.

Fundraising invoice was improved and made into a template in foundation svn,
which will let others help generate these.

Daniel updated sponsors status file.  Still need to double check some dates
and add some contact info, but this will allow us to track.

Spoke with Melissa (EA) about using her to remind fundraising@ when
sponsorships were coming time to renew.

We've discussed a new status2.txt file that will centralize the fundraising
task lists I've discussed on the list.  That will be put in place this week
to allow Daniel and Gav to reach out to some renewing sponsors and test the
process.

Spoke on list and with Phil and Sally about a sponsorship prospectus.  This
will be about a 5-6 page PDF that can be put the sponsorship value to top
corporate officers.

Generally there's a fundamental shift in the workflow on fundraising@ to get
more people involved.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

I. Budget: we'll be forwarding invoices this week for NASDAQ GlobeNewswire
distributions in October and November thus far (account is pay-as-you-go vs. our
pre-paid, flat-rate package with PR Newswire), as well as Melissa Warnkin's
expenses for ApacheCon.


II. Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: during ApacheCon, Sally Khudairi met
with both VP Fundraising Serge Knystautas and VP Brand Management Shane Curcuru
(not together; we may be arranging a "Marketing Trio" face-to-face meeting in
Boston over the next few months). Sally also attended the face-to-face Board
meeting in November.


III. Press Releases: the following announcement was issued over the NASDAQ
GlobeNewswire service: 

- 9 November: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Tika(tm) v1.0

Upcoming announcements planned for distribution include the Apache Geronimo
v3/beta-1 announcement which will take place on 16 November. Sally is also
planning to resume working on the Annual Report.


IV. Informal Announcements: in addition to the above announcement also posted on
the ASF blog, the following items were announced on @TheASF Twitter feed:

- 9 November: The Apache Software Foundation Announces #Apache #Tika™ v1.0
  s.apache.org/N0I #OpenSource #Content #Metadata #Analysis #Toolkit

- 31 October: The ASF Asks: How do YOU use the #Apache Web server? svy.mk/v7OfCx
  #ASF #HTTPServer #Web #Server #Survey

- 18 October: Use of #Apache Web Server spikes 100+M over 3 months; powering
  more than 326M Websites, according to Oct 2011 @Netcraft Web Server Survey

PMCs wishing to announce major project milestones should contact Sally at
press@apache.org for more information.


V. Media Relations: a very hectic month ramping up to ApacheCon, including
managing journalists on-site. Our "executive"/Foundation spokesperson
availability was addressed during the face-to-face Board meeting.


VI. Analyst Relations: other than a few responses to inquiries, no proactive
outreach or activities have taken place during this timeframe.


VII. ApacheCon liaison: the conference is now over. Sally worked with ConCom to
help flesh out the RFP for future events, and is tying up loose ends with the
producer for items such as planner expenses, and reimbursements.


VIII. (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison: Sally formally connected
VP ConCom Nick Burch with the OSCON co-chairs to determine how we can work
better together. A conference call is planned for 18 November.


IX. Newswire accounts: we have 6 pre-paid press releases with PRNewswire
remaining through 3 March 2012. We have now issued 7 press releases over the
NASDAQ GlobeNewswire service using HALO's account – these distributions are at a
lower cost than PRNewswire, and will be used as our primary distribution channel
for project-based announcements.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

W3C TPAC F2F meeting was in Santa Clara the week before ApacheCon.
I attended the HTML WG portions.  Otherwise not much to report.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

Much of the activity this month was focused on JIRA: 6 issues created, 5
issues resolved/closed, and 5 others made progress.  Most of the issues
deal with policy questions with respect to license compatibility: i.e.,
questions of the form "is it OK for an ASF project to depend on code made
available under license X?"

Notable discussions:

  ooo wishes to continue to use, maintain, and distribute GPL'ed build
  scripts for the time being; I've asked to see a plan to migrate to
  something else.  If there is a credible plan, I will likely approve a
  time limited transition during incubation.

  Discussion about a user withdrawing permission to include a patch, the
  response to this question was to try to accommodate that request if
  possible.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For October 2011: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@.  These continue to be dealt with
by the security team.  

7      Support question
2      Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
6      Vulnerability reports, of which:
       1  [httpd, via security@httpd.apache.org]
       1  [tomcat, via security@apache.org and geronimo via security@geronimo.apache.org]
       1  [httpd, via security@apache.org]
       2  [oo, via securityteam@openoffice.org]

Reminder: vulnerability handling process explained at
http://apache.org/security/committers.html

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

General
-------
Nick attended the second half of the in-person board meeting last week, and
delivered a partial report there. There was lots of discussion, and quite a
bit of concrete suggestion and guidance on the future of ApacheCon given.
(More on this later)

The board (and later concom discussions) encouraged ConCom to continue the
work with external conferences, which was piloted with GotoCon. From this,
Nick and Sally have a call on Friday with O'Reilly about possible
collaborations at OSCON.

Feedback was received from legal (via Larry) about the Cloudera MOU, and
we've fed back to Cloudera to ask for a couple more tweaks. Also with this
were some suggested wording tweaks to the Third Party event branding policy,
which we've accepted and updated the policy with.

We've also slightly tweaked the Third Party event branding policy to make it
clearer that events must not only be vendor neutral, but also easily seen by
everyone to be neutral.

Small Events
------------
The BarCamp in Seville was briefly covered in the last report, but we now
have more details. For those who didn't attend the lightning talk on it, the
attendance was our highest yet for a BarCampApache, and can hopefully go
higher in future. Nick and Ross held discussions with Carlos about what went
well / what was hard about organising the event, and we're hoping that
Carlos will be able to help improve the documentation and guidance for
future events.

The Apache Asia Roadshow was held this month, and was a big success. The
organisers provided a report to members@ on the event.

We held two BarCamps in Vancouver, one at the hotel on the Tuesday before
the conference, and one externally on the Saturday after. The in-conference
one was our best in-conference one yet, and it seems that the improvements
suggested after last year (lunch, next door to the hackathon, announce in
advance etc) worked well.

BarCampApacheSydney has been announced, at ApacheCon and online, for
Saturday 10th December. Nick, Brett, Ari and Kazu are driving forward with
this.

ApacheCon also produced lots of discussions on other future small events. We
hope that this will translate into planning activity on the small events
list, and hopefully we'll be able to announce several new events in the next
month.

ApacheCon NA 11
---------------
The producer is on holiday this week, so we don't yet have final numbers for
attendees. We hope to be able to provide that, along with outline figures
next month. Rough numbers are expected to be about the 450 mark. Meetups,
lightning talks and the hackathon all seemed well attended, though the
meetups generally seemed to be conference attendees only.

The conference seemed to go well, especially thanks to the efforts of Sally,
the planners, the speakers and the TAC reps. Speaker and Planner
hotels/expenses/etc seemed to work much better this time, anyone with any
outstanding issues around hotel costs or reg fees should contact the
planners list.

Cliff and Rich did a stunning job with getting recorders, working with TAC
to record sessions, and posting the audio online. We hope this will help
with educating and expanding the community, through easier access to and use
of the conference materials by those not present. The 5 recorders purchased
have been distributed based on expected upcoming events. 2 are with Melissa
ready to post to the next NA event, 1 is with Nick in Europe, and 2 with
Brett ready for BarCampApacheSydney. We expect to bring these two back to
Europe afterwards, ready for small events in the spring.

Slides and Audio have been posted to Lanyrd, and we've asked speakers to
review/check/correct these. At some point soon, volunteers (probably Nick...)
will archive the current ApacheCon site, so we have a record for posterity.

The Future of ApacheCon
-----------------------
This was debated at length before and during the conference. Following
discussions and feedback from the board, a session was held on the Tuesday
evening to discuss the plans and the RFP.

During these discussions, a large number of requirements from past events
were agreed as being "up for grabs". The conclusions were generally that we
should focus our requirements on a few key areas, and leave the bulk of
things up to the producer (decisions as well as responsibilities). Once the
remaining key areas were agreed, this led to a initial drafting process, led
largely by Issac, Danese and Cliff, with input from both those at the event
and those remote. The draft document still needs some more work, but we
would encourage those board members who haven't already offered feedback to
do so now.

The plan is for the RFP draft to be worked on over the coming month, with
Nick responsible for nailing down the final form in that time. We hope to
present the final version at the December board meeting for approval. Our
intention is to then make any last tweaks (if required by the board), wait
out the Christmas period, and then start the CFP just into the new year.

Work has also begun on an internal, ASF private document to capture the
review and approval process that'll be used to judge submissions.


An outline announcement for ApacheCon EU 2012 was made at ApacheCon, along
with the plan to have the next ApacheCon NA in 2013. A pleasing number of
people volunteered to help with ACEU.

Nick is in discussions with Paul Gotez (Apache Committer, and main on the
ground SAP contact) on finalising the venue and dates for ACEU12. Once those
are confirmed, we'll seek to sign up volunteers to help with the planning
and organising, as well as confirm what additional support we'll need
(beyond that provided by the SAP facilities/events team)

Committee
---------
The structure of the committee was discussed with the board, along with at
other events. Several people who have previously organised small events were
asked about joining the committee, but the bulk declined, typically citing
the history (or "baggage") of concom as a reason. Following board feedback
and advice, it's intended to provide something for the December board
meeting to tackle this.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Accepted a "loan" from IBM for a PPC64 server to be
incorporated into our build farm.

Welcomed the new VP Infra Sam Ruby to the leadership
post for Infra.

Changed our plans from simply replacing the bad disk
in harmonia to replacing the entire host asap.

Completed the migration of the openoffice.org domain
to ASF control.

Discussed mirroring options for the large set of artifacts
produced in OpenOffice releases.

Registered the apachecon.eu domain with our dotster account.

Held a minor infra meetup at Apachecon led by Philip Gollucci
to discuss transition issues for the VP role.

Discussed a few proposed mail templates to send out regarding
our svnpubsub migration plans for dist files and websites.

Pushed to resolve a few outstanding DNS migration issues for
the subversion, spamassassin, and libcloud domains.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

General
=======

Zoe Slattery has been added to the Committee.

ApacheCon NA 2011 Vancouver
===========================

Of the 11 people we accepted and booked flights/accom for, it seems 
two pulled out at the very last minute - one due to an injury (and 
did not have travel insurance) and one due to not having a Visa.

Zoe was our TAC person on the ground and I hear did a great job.

No other news about the event currently as I'm awaiting a report to 
come in from those that were there. I expect to report more full about
ApacheCon next month where I also hope to provide actual costs for TAC.

Other Events:
-------------

No news about any other events happening at this time.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

Apache Abdera provides Java implementations of the IETF Atom 
Syndication Format and Publishing Protocol specifications.

After being fairly quiet there has been a lot more activity over the 
last couple of months but still with a very small number of active committers. 
A trunk release was made to get a few bug fixes and user patches released, 
however that has not yet managed to get the required +1 votes to release it. 

An old inactive committer has returned doing a lot of development on a new
Abdera version 2, and this appears to be making a lot of good progress.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

Ant is a Java based build tool (see http://ant.apache.org)

o Release Status

There have been no new releases of the core projects in this report
period. Two Antlibs (component libraries) were released in this period.

The current releases are:

Core
---------
Ant 1.8.2 was released on Dec 27th, 2010.

Ivy
-------
Ivy 2.2.0 was released on October 7, 2010
Ivy-DE 2.1.0 was released on Aug 20, 2010

Antlib releases
-----------------
AntUnit 1.2 was released on August 16, 2011
- Used for testing build files
Apache Compress Antlib 1.1 was released on November 5, 2011
- Provided tasks and types for archive formats (supported by Apache
Commons Compress)

o Committers and PMC

There have been no new committers or PMC members added in the period.
There are no diversity issues regarding the PMC.

o Community

The project bug backlog remains an issue.

o Branding

As detailed in last report, all items are in compliance apart from:
* Project Naming And Descriptions : Apache Ant continues to use Apache
Ant as a noun, rather than an adjective


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Buildr Project

Our latest release happened in June and we're gearing up for another release
probably in November. Our changelog currently shows about 50
fixes/changes/enhancements since our last release. Subversion log show about 100
commits since June with commits from 3 different committers and patches accepted
from 2 external contributors.

Mailing lists have been relatively quiet, with an average of 80 emails per month
since July (compared to our 150+ historical average) and only a few threads
diverging from the usual "I need help" question-response interactions.

We have no issues that require board attention.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache C++ Standard Library Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Camel Project

Apache Camel is a powerful open source integration framework
based on known Enterprise Integration Patterns.

Community:
* There are a few issues that require the board attention
  and the PMC will continue to work to fix them.
* The project is healthy and continues to grow
* One committer added to the project: Ioannis Canellos (iocanel)
* One member added to the PMC: Dan Kulp (dkulp)
* A resolution to change the PMC Chair was submitted for
  the board consideration this month.

Development:
* Development continues with new features and fixes on trunk
  and the camel-2.7.x and 2.8.x maintenance branches
* The number of issues fixed on trunk is rather large and we
  decided to issue a RC to allow for better testing in the
  community before the final 2.9.0

Releases:
* 2.9.0-RC1


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Cassandra Project

Cassandra is a distributed database combining the best of Google's
Bigtable and Amazon's Dynamo.

--Highlights--

Releasing 1.0.0 was a big deal [1] [2].  We added the overwhelmingly most
popular feature request (compression) and addressed some long-standing
weaknesses in the storage engine.  We also continued our efforts to make
Cassandra more accessible to mainstream developers and ops teams.

[1] http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/cassandra-user/201110.mbox/%3CCAKkz8Q2HCV7GCwdTErcDhBwvOBCuVTUo%2BP1hERLTH5E_tSAyvg%40mail.gmail.com%3E
[2] https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/entry/the_apache_software_foundation_announces18

--Releases--

0.7.9, 0.7.10, 0.8.3, 0.8.4, 0.8.5, 0.8.6, 0.8.7, 1.0.0 beta1 + rc1 + rc2,
1.0.0, 1.0.1, 1.0.2

Cassandra has attempted a 4-month release schedule for the last two major
releases (0.8.0 and 1.0.0).  0.8.0 was a month late; 1.0.0 was a week late.
This is not perfect, but it's progress.

The 1.0.0 feature freeze period also more participation than we've
seen before, particularly from the Rakuten and Gemini teams in Japan.
1.0.0 was easily our most solid .0 release yet.  Still, most teams wait
for the final release before testing in earnest.

--Community--

To celebrate 1.0.0, I offered a "Cassandra Bug Hunter" shirt to everyone
who has contributed one or more patches to Cassandra (we track these
as "contributors" in Jira).  There were 189.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Click Project

Apache Click is an easy-to-use page and component oriented Java web framework.

There are no board level issues at this time.

Infrastructure
-------------------
There are no infrastructure issues at this time.

Development
------------------
Development activity has focused on a 2.4/2.3.1 release scheduled for
the end of year.

Community
----------------
There have been no new committer or PMC members added during this period.

Mailing list traffic has picked up quite a bit for the period, with
new users seeking help and advice.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Apache Cocoon 3 is a major rewrite of Cocoon 2.2. Like Cocoon 2 it
is based around the concept of pipelines and sitemaps and it is
very similar to Cocoon 2.2 in many respects but is slimmed down and
designed to be easily used with Java code (= no frameworks required!).
On top of this, Cocoon 3 has the goal of becoming the best available
platform for RESTful webservices and web applications.

Community

Traffic on users lists continues be light, people complained
about the C2 maintenance, since it is the foundation of some companies
products. OTOH there is a renewed enthusiasm about the new Cocoon
approach, people started spreading the word on Twitter an blogs about
custom integrations and experimentations, we are waiting for
contributions after invited them on actively participating, instead of
just being users.

Releases/Development

After Apache Cocoon 3.0.0-alpha-3 release
(reported on Aug 11), development of Cocoon 3.0 continues healthy
towards 3.0.0-beta-1 release, with major activity during the last
month. There has been no notable changes on older (2.x) branches.
Traffic on dev continues on discussing about future of Cocoon, with
new components development and evolvement of existing ones

Branding checklist:
Project Website Basics - not done
Website Navigation Links - not done
Trademark Attributions - not done
Logos and Graphics - not done
Project Metadata - not done
Read PMC Branding Responsibilities - not done

Issues for board consideration

There are no issues the board should be aware of.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Community Development Project

Status report for the Apache Community Development Project

[NOTE] This is the second consecutive month we have reported due to late reporting last quarter. We are now back on schedule.

The Commmunity Development PMC is responsible for helping people become 
involved with Apache projects

Project Status
--------------

No issues require board attention at this time.

GSoC
----

Uli, our outgoing GSoC for this year has put together an admin
guide which should be very useful for future admins. This will include
press relations activities, something we have not done well on in the past.

Outstanding:
  * Verify that new mentor selection process is documented for GSoC
  * Verify infra is OK with temporary accounts for GSoC

Events and Speakers
-------------------

We made plans at ApacheCon to progress the speakers and local mentors app
forwards. We hope to see some work integrating this, and the speaker
slidedecks we currently link to, with Lanyrd soon.

Nick Burch and Ross Gardler VP ConCom and ComDev met to discuss further
collaboration on ASF event support. Proposals will be presented to each
PMC for discussion during the next reporting period.

Outstanding:
  * Raise awareness of Speaker and Event support materials

Website
-------

No major changes this month, just a few minor tweaks to the Speakers section.

Objectives for next period
--------------------------

  * propose opportunities for further collaboration between ConCom and ComDev
    with respect to events.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Continuum Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache CouchDB Project

Apache CouchDB is a distributed JSON document database with HTTP API.

Released 1.1.1, a maintenance release with many important bugfixes.

Branched 1.2.x for our next release.

Moved development to git as a testbed for the ASF.

Verified in person that PMC member Noah Slater is in fact a human and
not as previously assumed a very advanced shell script.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None.

Changes in the PMC membership:
  None.
  Last modified: 2011-01-10

General status:
  The most recent release is 0.9 on 2011-02-07.

  Development has been quiet for the quarter.
  Five PMC members have been present a little during this quarter.
  Some little activity on dev mail list and issue tracker which was answered
  by more than one developer.

  Some little activity on user mail list was answered by more than one
  developer.

  Yes, those are similar statements to last quarter.

Progress of the project:
  The only commits were a few documentation edits.

Attend to project branding:
  The following is the comment from last quarter (no further action):
  Since last report our other project logo now has a TM symbol added. Still
  need to apply that to all plugin sites. So that completes the major parts
  of our branding. During next quarter will have another look at the revised
  branding guidelines docs.
  Many plugin sites need to be re-deployed. As this gradually happens, the
  changes will be reflected.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The Apache HTTP Server Project is an effort to develop and maintain an
open-source HTTP server for modern operating systems.

No major issues requiring the Board's attention.

== Project Status ==

The project continues to make progress towards a GA release of httpd
2.4.0,releasing one beta, with another up for vote during ApacheCon.  We now
have a 2.4 branch in subversion.  Two security releases (2.2.20 and 2.2.21)
were released during this reporting period.  We are moving for an additional 
security release of 2.0.x in the coming weeks which will likely accompany a
formal statement for deprecation and EOL of 2.0.x.  

We have approximately 805 non-enhancement bugs.  About 10% are 
FixedInTrunk.

== Community ==
Dan Poirier was removed from the PMC roster at his own request. No
other PMC roster changes this period.  

No new committers in this period.

Mailing list, bugzilla, and IRC traffic is steady, with a bubble
around ApacheCon and our 2.4 preparations.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project

The Apache HttpComponents project is responsible for creating and maintaining
a toolset of low level Java components focused on HTTP and associated 
protocols.

Status

Overall the project remains active.

A Google Summer of Code 2011 project mentored by an HttpComponents committer 
has been successfully completed and its results incorporated into the 4.2 
branch of HttpClient.

There has been discussion on the user list about the best way to incorporate
the caching module into Android applications.

Releases

HttpCore 4.2-alpha1 was released on the 19th of August 2011
HttpComponents Parent POM 5 released on the 18th of September 2011
HttpCore 4.2-alpha2 was released on the 23rd of September 2011
HttpAsyncClient 4.0-alpha3 was released on the 30th of September 2011
HttpClient 4.2-alpha1 was released on the 3rd of November 2011

Community

The community remains small but active. There is good user interaction on
the mailing lists. 

-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Notwithstanding the fact that members of the Board are active within the
Incubator, there are no issues requiring Board attention or intervention.

We are, however, recognizing that we've had growth issues of our own.  As
David Crossley pointed out, he made mistakes last month related to the
Reporting Schedule, and we continue to have issues.  The Incubator is almost
as big as the rest of the ASF combined.  David posted a plot chart
reflecting our growth: http://incubator.apache.org/history/

Roy proposed one change to help cut down on some commit karma logistics.
Sebb and David have been discussing some changes to help manage the
meta-data, e.g., reporting schedule.  Nothing is concrete, yet, but clearly
we need to make some changes to make things easier.

OpenMeetings -- project to provide video conferencing, instant messaging,
white board, collaborative document editing and other groupware tools using
API functions of the Red5 Streaming Server for Remoting and Streaming -- has
been accepted for Incubation.

--------------------

Accumulo

Accumulo is a sorted, distributed key/value store based on BigTable's
design.  Accumulo entered incubation in September 2011.

In the move towards graduation, we must address:
1. Learning Apache procedures
2. Creating releases
3. Building a community

Community Development:
* active discussion on mailing lists and on JIRA tickets
* two new contributors have submitted patches
* web site created
* procedures and decision processes beginning to take form

Project Development:
* podling voted on release candidate for 1.3.5 (soon to be submitted to
incubator PMC)
* documented release process
* applied formatting and licenses
* fixed bugs / tested code / added documentation


--------------------

Airavata

Airavata is a software toolkit which provides features to compose, manage,
execute, and monitor large scale applications and workflows on computational
resources ranging from local clusters to national grids and computing
clouds. Airavata is incubating since May 2011.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation

  1. The barrier of entry in contributing to Airavata seems to be high. The
code, documentation and JIRA issues have to be efficiently organized and
managed to appeal to wider developer community.
  2. Test coverage of the code has to be increased significantly.
  3. Develop a strong community with organizational diversity and well
aligned with existing ASF projects as outlined here:
http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/AiravataProposal#Alignment

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?

No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

Patanachai Tangchaisin, Heshan Suriyarachchi and Saminda Wijeratne were
VOTEd in as committers and PPMC members on the project.
Chris, Ross, Ate, Suresh, Marlon, Raminder met at ApacheCon NA and had a
great time! Suresh's Fast Feather talk introducing Airavata went great.

How has the project developed since the last report?

* Community is efficient being engaged through mailing list and JIRA.
* The code is significantly improved with proper modular organization and
packaging since entering incubation.
* Documentation and website have also been improved.
* All data base required components are integrated with Derby.
* The XRegistry component is deprecated in favor of synergizing with other
Apache repository projects like Jack Rabbit through the JCR API.
* Jenkins continuos integration and sonar code analysis dashboard are setup
and actively used by the community.
* The project is preparing its initial 0.1-incubating release, currently
VOTE'ing on the 2nd release candidate.


--------------------


Amber

DID NOT REPORT


--------------------

Any23

Anything To Triples (shortly Any23) defined as a Java library, a Web service
and a set of command line tools to extract and validate structured data in
RDF format from a variety of Web documents and markup formats. Any23 is what
it is informally named an RDF Distiller.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation

  1. Port Any23 code to ASF infrastructure and update license headers
  2. Develop a strong community with organizational diversity and with
strong connections to other relevant ASF communities.
  3. At least one Any23 incubating release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC), Tika PMC, or ASF Board wish/need
to be aware of?

No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

Paolo Castagna came onto list and filed some issues ANY23-18, and ANY23-19
suggesting to abstract away the interfaces
in Any23 and make it easier to plug in other RDF technologies, and to
support RDF-A.

Giovanni Tumarello now has his account.

How has the project developed since the last report?

Any23 was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on October 1, 2011.

All infrastructure has been moved over to Apache. Michele Mostarda posted a
suggested set of issues to solve in
the 0.7.0 release work in trunk.


--------------------

Clerezza

(incubating since November 27th, 2009)

Clerezza is a framework and set of components designed to make it easy to
build application for the semantic and the social web.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation.

1. For the first release mainly license headers have to be added
2. Tutorial on how to build apps with clerezza

Any issues that the Incubator PMC or ASF Board might wish/need to be aware
of

- No issue

How has the community developed since the last report

- Some new interested persons have shown up on the mailing lists
- Patch contributed by non-committer
- External project providing a new backend for Clerezza:
https://github.com/enridaga/clerezza-virtuoso/tree/master/clerezza-virtuoso
- Nomination for OSS Award (http://www.ossaward.ch/)

How has the project developed since the last report.

- Some bug-fixes and performance improvements. Still working on spamming
everything with license headers.


--------------------

Deltacloud


Graduated.


--------------------

DirectMemory

(incubating since October 2011)

Apache DirectMemory is a multi layered cache implementation featuring
off-heap memory management (a-la BigMemory) to enable efficient
handling of a large number of java objects without affecting jvm
garbage collection performance

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move
towards graduation.
1) Ensure branding requirements are met.
2) Ensuring IP is cleared.
3) Understanding process/decision making guidelines: release process/new
committer process.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC or ASF Board might wish/need to be aware
of

- No issue

How has the community developed since the last report

- Some new interested persons have shown up on the mailing lists
- Patches contributed by non-committers
- Discussion about a potential new committer

How has the project developed since the last report.

- Healthy activity on 3rd parties integrations such as Apache Karaf and
Apache Commons JCS.


--------------------

Droids

Droids is an Incubator project arrived from Apache Labs. Droids entered
incubation on October, 2008.

It's an intelligent standalone robot framework that allows one to create and
extend existing web robots.

The last three months have been focused on our first official release, which
we finally did. The long hold off has been a bit of a community burner, let
us hope that we sparkle the spirit we had in the last report.

Issues before graduation :

 * IP clearance


--------------------

HISE

DID NOT REPORT


--------------------

Jena

Jena is a semantic web framework in Java that implements
the key W3C recommendations for the core semantic web technologies of
RDF and SPARQL.  Jena entered incubation in November 2010.

Progress since the last report:

The project has voted and accepted a new committer onto the project.
The necessary ICLA has been completed and the new committer is now active.

The project has completed code clean-up, contacting previous contributors
and
asking them to re-contributed to the Apache project.  One contribution from
a
company that no longer exists remains under a BSD-style license and is noted
in the codebase.

The Apache-hosted website has been built using Apache CMS and buildbot
system.
A first release is active, while a second release with all the previous
existing documentation ported to the new system is underway.

Important issues to address for graduation:

* Do a full release.
* Continue to grow the community.

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

None.

Technical development:

The new transactional native SPARQL storage systems has been moved to the
development
trunk.  Leading-edge users users continue to test this with us.

About 50 JIRA items have been resolved since the last report.


--------------------

Kalumet

DID NOT REPORT


--------------------

Lucene.NET

DID NOT REPORT


--------------------

NPanday

DID NOT REPORT


--------------------

Nuvem

Apache Nuvem will define an open application programming interface for
common cloud application services, allowing applications to be easily ported
across the most popular cloud platforms.

Nuvem was accepted for Incubation on June, 2010.

* Pasindu Madubashana successfully completed the Data Services project as
part of GSoC 2011, providing support for GAE , Amazon SimpleDB and a
standalone
implantation based on Cassandra.

* Community continue small but somewhat active, with about 3 to 4 active
committers.

Top things to resolve prior to graduation:

* Increase the number of active committers.


--------------------

OpenNLP

OpenNLP is a machine learning based toolkit for the processing of natural
language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks, such as tokenization,
sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction,
chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution. These tasks are usually
required to build more advanced text processing services.

OpenNLP entered incubation on 11/23 2010.

Our second release at Apache is now out for vote and will hopefully be
released soon. After some delay through legal issues we have finally
accepted the syntactic generalization contribution from Boris Galitsky and
he did send in a couple of patches to improve it. The development
team is active and the development of the next release will now start.

A list of the the most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:
 * Establish open regression tests for the parser and coreference component
 * Identify and encourage new contributors on the path to committership


--------------------

PhotArk

Apache PhotArk will be a complete open source photo gallery application
including a content repository for the images, a display piece, an access
control layer, and upload capabilities.

PhotArk was accepted for Incubation on August 19, 2008.

 * Subash Chaturanga completed the "Face Recognition" project as part of
GSoC 2011
 * Umashanthi Pavalanathan completed making Photark more "Social" as part of
GSoC 2011
 * After GSoC, we saw a slightly slowdown in community iterations.

* Issues before graduation :
 * PhotArk started as a project with no initial code-base, and we have
grown the community to the minimal independent committer size required for
graduation and have been seeing slow but continuous interest in the project.
The community started discussion graduation and based on mentors feedback we
are going to recruit couple committers before we start the graduation
process.


--------------------

S4

DID NOT REPORT.  Still bootstrapping into the Incubator.


--------------------

SIS

Apache SIS is a toolkit that spatial information system builders or users
can use to build applications containing location context. This project will
look to store reference implementations of spatial algorithms, utilities,
services, etc. as well as serve as a sandbox to explore new ideas. Further,
the goal is to have Apache SIS grow into a thriving Apache top-level
community, where a host of SIS/GIS related software (OGC datastores,
REST-ful interfaces, data standards, etc.) can grow from and thrive under
the Apache umbrella.

* Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

Still slow progress on development. We started a thread here:
http://s.apache.org/Q2z
We were discussing the board report and then all of the sudden it turned
into a where is
SIS going discussion. We were pretty realistic and discussed whether it made
sense to keep
going. The good news was that a few of the community members (Adam Estrada
and Luc Maisonobe)
came out of the wood work and seconded that what we are trying to do is a
great idea and
that people would use it. We hope to use this as something to help move us
forward.

I (Chris Mattmann) care deeply about this project, and will try and step up
my development
progress on it. Could still use a few more PPMC members and interested folks
though.

* Community progress since the last report

See above.

* Project progress since last report

SIS was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on February 21, 2010.

Chris close out a couple JIRA issues, SIS-27 (a fix to the Maven parent pom
from Patrick O'Leary), and
a website update (SIS-29) reported by sebb. Other than that, not much
development. Here is the current
list of items to work on for 0.2-incubating. I'm going to shoot to close
these out over the next 3 months.

 SIS-28 Create a Layer Service for Google Earth Integration
 SIS-13 Change QuadTree Reader/Writer to use URLs instead of String file
paths
 SIS-11 Basic CLI for SIS
 SIS-10 Ability to create SIS data from WKT specs
 SIS-9 Allow for multiple spatial reference systems
 SIS-8 Build a common SIS data container for spatial data


--------------------

Stanbol

Stanbol is a modular software stack and reusable set of components for
semantic content management.

Entered incubation on 2010-11-15.

There are no issues that require the Incubator PMC or ASF Board attention at
this time.

1) Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation.

1a) Make a first release (depends on a first release of Apache Clerezza to
eliminate SNAPSHOT dependencies)

No concrete progress here.

1b) Create demos showing the power of Stanbol to grow the community

Demo server at http://dev.iks-project.eu, should be moved to Apache servers.

1c) Improve documentation and web site to lower the barrier for new users

Work in progress, docs are now available for the enhancer, entity hub,
content hub, cms adapter and reasoners components, and for multi-language
support.

2) How has the community developed since the last report?

No new committers, some new users have shown up on the mailing list.
Ali Anil Sinaci provided a number of patches which cover all current
functionalities of Contenthub.

Stanbol was presented at various events: Nuxeo Wold, ApacheCon, "Smart
Content = Smart Business" workshop at the [J.
Boye](http://jboye.com/conferences/aarhus11/) conference in Aarhus, Denmark.

3) How has the project developed since the last report.
* Integration with the Linked Media Framework
(http://code.google.com/p/kiwi/) is in progress.
* Integration of the Semantic Search capabilities with the Stanbol
ContentHub.
* New EnhancementEngine for extracting Keywords from Controlled
vocabularies.
* Improved multi language support.
* Bidirectional mapping feature between JCR/CMIS content repositories and
RDF data.
* Implementation of long term operations for reasoners is in progress.


--------------------

Stonehenge

SHOULD BE RETIRED.


--------------------

VCL

VCL has been incubating since December 2008. VCL is a cloud computing
platform for the management of physical and virtual
machines.[https://cwiki.apache.org/VCL|]

Community Involvement
* Numerous Apache VCL community members have gained enough knowledge and are
actively answering questions on the mailing lists.
* Questions have been posted to the lists related to several new
installations from around the world.
* Development issues are being discussed with participants from many
different organizations.

Code Contributions
* Support for IBM Power7 hardware was discussed on the development list.
Code and documentation was contributed by Sunil Venkatesh of the University
of Maryland Baltimore County.
* Received a contribution from Satoshi Kobayashi of Hitachi Ltd. Japan to
add Multilingualization/internationalization of the web UI and several other
improvements.
* Received a provisioning module for VMware vCenter clusters from Aaron
Coburn at Amherst college.
* Mark Gardner from Virginia Tech is working on adding support for IPv6.

New Committers
* Several individuals from different institutions have expressed interest in
becoming committers.
* The main barrier encountered is obtaining university legal department
approval of individual and corporate contributor license agreements.
Current committers are working with interested individuals to share
experience and work through these issues.

Top Issues Before Graduation
* Diversity. The community has been working to attract additional
contributors to the project. Several committer candidates are being
discussed.


--------------------

Wink

Apache Wink is a project that enables development and consumption of REST
style web services. The core server runtime is based on the JAX-RS (JSR 311)
standard. The project also introduces a client runtime which can leverage
certain components of the server-side runtime. Apache Wink will deliver
component technology that can be easily integrated into a variety of
environments.

Apache Wink has been incubating since 2009-05-27.

Notable Activity:

* New users are starting to post to the wink-user mailing list, but
development list traffic and discussions are very slow. Hopefully community
members will start prototyping around JAX-RS 2.0 and energize the community
again.

Planned Activity:

* Work towards graduation.

Top issues before graduation:

* Getting more active dev community


--------------------

Wookie

Wookie is a Java server application that allows you to upload and deploy
widgets for your applications. Wookie is based on the W3C Widgets
specification, but widgets can also be included that use extended APIs such
as Google Wave Gadgets and OpenSocial.

Wookie has been incubating since 17th July 2009

Since August 2011:
   * Release 0.9.1 put out for vote
   * Community members attended Apache Hackathon in Amsterdam and linked up
with Rave and Poi committers
   * Major patch for oAuth support submitted from community member
   * Published maven artifacts, and demonstrated integrated deployment with
Rave
   * "Widget Store" collaboration mentioned in previous report is being
developed externally for now, and may be submitted as an incubator proposal
at a later stage
   * Identified a security issue, and took advice from security@apache on
resolution process

Next steps:
   * Finish 0.9.1 release and move onto a 0.9.2 release
   * Continue to work and liaise with other projects

Issues before graduation:
   * improve our release process
   * build community/expand user base


--------------------

Zeta Components

DID NOT REPORT

Very little project traffic since April.  They are a very small community.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache jUDDI Project

jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the Universal
Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI v3) specification for (Web)
Services. The jUDDI project includes Scout. Scout is an implementation of the
JSR 93 - Java API for XML Registries 1.0 (JAXR).

jUDDI

- We released jUDDI v.3.1.1 and 3.1.2 fixing mostly console related issues.
- Some work was done for integration of latest version of jUDDI in JBESB and
  RiftSaw (Apache ODE)
- jUDDI client was tested with Systinet and SAP Registries
- Traffic on the mailing lists was a little less then the usual ~50 a month
- No new committers.

Scout
- No new releases this quarter.
- Very low volume of JAXR related questions on the mailing list.

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

The Apache Lenya CMS is a Cocoon based XML/XHTML content management system.

Issues:

No board level issues at this time.

Development:

No new releases this quarter.
Last release: 2.0.4 on 2011-03-14

Community:

Florent Andre was voted in as a PMC member in October.
A community get together was held in Freiburg, Germany on September
27th and 28th. Nine people were in attendance. The community made use
of Apache Extras to share some of the work created and presented at the
meeting.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Libcloud Project

Apache Libcloud

Libcloud is a Python library that abstracts away the differences among
multiple cloud provider APIs.

Issues

There are no issues that require the board's attention at this time.

Releases

Libcloud 0.6.1 has been released on November 9th, 2011. It's a major release
and includes a brand new DNS API and many other improvements. It also
includes patches submitted by 16 different external contributors.

Community

* No new committers
* No new PMC Members
* Multiple new contributors
* I was guest on FLOSS weekly (episode #181) where I talked about Libcloud


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

- Community

Stefan Bodewig was added to the Logging PMC effective August 22nd.

- Project Branding Requirements

  - log4net site now conforms to the requirements.
  - component and receivers log4j companions will be rolled into log4j-extras
  - log4j and log4j-extras conform to the requirements.
  - log4php completed the branding requirements in July (with latest release).
  - log4cxx has had no activity.
  

- Development

log4j 1.2:

Inconsequential development this quarter. log4j 1.2.17 release overdue.

log4j 2.0:

Development of Log4j 2.0 has continued in an experimental branch but is nearing 
the point where an alpha release should be done to encourage testing and
wider participation. Informal discussions were held at ApacheCon with attendees 
with several expressing interest in it. One individual who has never before 
participated in the ASF expressed a strong interest in getting involved.

log4cxx:

No development this period.

log4net:

Development of log4net has picked up again and the first release since
more than five years has been done with log4net 1.2.11 early October.

There still is a backlog of lots of open issues raised against log4net
and the community of developers still is very small.

One contributor - Roy Chastain - was kind enough to set up a survey
for log4net users where we poll for the .NET framework version our
users really need log4net to support.


log4php:

Development of log4php has been progressing steadily mostly by a single 
committer. There have been several bug reports, feature requests as well as 
patches contributed by the community. The scope of the next release (2.2) 
has mostly been decided and the release is planned for December.

An active contributor of log4php, Florian Semm, has volunteered to help with 
the release. He will be assisting in testing for any regressions in the newly
developed code.

Chainsaw:

Chainsaw is ready for release push but has been waiting for the component
and receivers companions which it depends on to be released. To simplify
things, it is planned to abandon those as distinct products and roll them
into the existing log4j-extras companion, push an log4j-extras release
and then a Chainsaw release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

No new mod_perl 1.x releases since the last report.

--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

No new mod_perl 2.x releases since the last report.

work to fully support httpd-2.4 has been started and is moving along.

--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

No new Apache-Test releases since the last report

--- Apache-SizeLimit --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.  It is used to kill off large httpd child processes
based on various environmental triggers.

No new Apache-SizeLimit releases since the last report


--- Apache-Bootstrap --

Apache-Bootstrap is a framework to make it easier to build perl
module distributions for different mod_perl versions.  It encapsulates
code developed over the years by mod_perl developers to make
maintaining Apache::* and Apache2::* modules in the same distribution easy.

No new Apache-Bootstrap releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Reload --

Apache-Reload is a popular component in most mod_perl development
environments, used to refresh compiled code in the perl interpreter
without completely restarting httpd.

No new Apache-Reload releases since the last report.

-- Apache-DBI --

Apache-DBI is a popular component in many mod_perl deployments. It
is used to provide transparent database connection pooling to clients
using DBI.

Apache-DBI 1.11 was released: 7 Oct 2011

-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be a healthy development community, though
as a mature and stable product development moves at a naturally
slower pace than in years past.  Bugs are found and discussed and
applied with due consideration for our production userbase.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is quiet, with a few bug reports and user questions.
Nothing noteworthy has happened since the last report.


-- PMC --

No noteworthy PMC events happened since the last report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache POI Project

Apache POI is a Java library for reading and writing Microsoft office file
formats.

Project Status
--------------
We continue to have an active community with high levels of
participation from users on mailing lists and issue reporting in Bugzilla.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

Community
---------
In the last quarter, we haven't added any new committers.
Traffic on the dev list has been steady. Most of patches and bug fixes are
being applied without much delay. Traffic on the user list is down relative
to the previous quarter (350 vs 600 messages in the previous quarter).

Releases
--------
We released another beta release this quarter, 3.8 beta 4 and we're aiming
to release 3.8-FINAL in December 2011 (Our last stable release, POI-3.7,
was released in October 2010)


Branding
--------
We believe we've now completed all the steps on the project branding checklist.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project

Apache Qpid™ is a cross-platform Enterprise Messaging system which 
implements the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP), providing message 
brokers written in C++ and Java, along with clients for C++, Java JMS, .Net, 
Python, Ruby and more...

Release:
Qpid 0.12 has been released since the last report
Qpid 0.14 is busy making its way out 

Generally the release speed and quality seem to be good, having the 3 
month cycle is a good thing for the project. QMFv2 is not making its way 
through all the clients. The JMS client is getting face lift and AMQP 1.0
also getting some attention, plus a lot of other features rolling in.

Community:
User and Developer lists active.
Keith Wall has been added as a committer
Andrew Stitcher, Chuck Rolke, Justin Ross, Ken Giusti, Keith Wall have been 
voted onto the PMC.

Issues:
None to report at this stage.



-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache River Project

Apache River is a distributed computing architecture, based on the JSK
Starter Kit Source code donated by Sun Microsystems, for the Jini
Specification.

Releases:
No new releases since last report

Progress:
Some members are still very active and have contributed a lot of things
to think on regarding River's direction.  I get the impression that
there's lots of ASF/personal/professional life juggling go on this
year and so things have been a bit quiet of late.

Community:
Apache River has welcomed one new committer and PMC member to our ranks.

Issues:
No board issues at this time


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

Apache Roller is a full-featured, Java-based weblogging package that works
well on Tomcat and MySQL, and is also known to run on other servers and
databases. 

Issues

No board issues at this time.

Releases 

The latest release of Apache Roller is v5.0, which was released
on May 8, 2011. 

Community

Since our last report, there have been some bug reports about and fixes
made to the new Roller mobile-code developed during this year's Google
Summer of Code. 

Apart from that, the Roller community continues to be rather quiet
with low traffic that mostly concerns technical support and installation
issues. No new committers or PMC changes to report. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project

The Apache Santuario project is aimed at providing implementation of security
standards for XML.

There was one new release in the last quarter, version 1.4.6 of the Apache XML
Security for Java library. This release fixes a thread safety issue with XML
Signature, a bug fix for the Canonical XML 1.1 algorithm, as well as a number
of other bug fixes.

Overall it was a quiet quarter for the project with few bugs submitted. Work
has recommenced on the next major java release, 1.5.0, with only a few items
remaining before release.

There were no new committers or changes to the PMC in the last quarter.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Subversion Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Turbine Project

Apache Turbine Project Board Report, November 2011

Apache Turbine is a servlet based framework that allows experienced Java
developers to quickly build web applications. Turbine allows you to use
personalize the web sites and to use user logins to restrict access to
parts of your application.

Turbine is a matured and well established framework that is used as the
base of many other projects.

Status

The Turbine project has as usual seen low levels of activity in the last
quarter.
The Turbine project has no board-level issues at this time.

Project Branding Board Report Checklist

The last issue left is
- TODO: Logos and Graphics : include TM

Community changes

No new committers were voted in since the last board report.
No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.

Turbine core project

The Turbine core project proceeds slowly to the next milestone release
which shall include a modified security implementation and support for
the Quartz scheduler to replace the built-in one.
It has been decided to promote the existing fulcrum-parent POM to a new
turbine-parent POM. Adjustment of the related sub-projects is underway.

Fulcrum component project

Work on migrating the build process of the Fulcrum components to Maven 2
continues.
- fulcrum-quartz, version 1.1.0 has been released in this quarter.

META project

There has been no activity on the META sub-project in this quarter.
No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.
Two new Maven-2 archetypes have been created as a result of the
Hackathon at ApacheCon. They support the creation of Turbine web
applications for Turbine versions 2.3.3 and 4.0. It is planned to close
down the sub-project META in favor to the support of Maven-2 archetypes.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Tuscany Project

Apache Tuscany is an SOA framework based on OASIS OpenCSA and SCA.

The past couple of months in Tuscany have been relatively quiet compared
to previous years. There have been no releases, no new committers and no
PMC member changes. There have been about 200 commits made by half a dozen
different committers doing bug fixes and new development. Traffic on the 
mailing lists has also been lower than usual with around 70 emails/month 
on the dev list and 36/month on the user list.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

Status
 * Development discussion, but no commits.  Moderate activity on
mailing lists, all questions answered promptly.

Community
 * No changes.

Releases
 * None


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Whirr Project

Whirr is a library for running services in the cloud. Whirr graduated from the
incubator in August and this is the third board report as a TLP.

Community
 We added David Alves as a committer. We continue to get a good level of
 contributions and user activity.

 Tom White gave a talk about Whirr at ApacheCon in Vancouver earlier this
 month.

Releases/Development
 Lots of work has gone into the 0.7.0 release, which we expect to release
 imminently.

Branding checklist:
 Project Website Basics - done
 Website Navigation Links - done
 Trademark Attributions - not done
 Logos and Graphics - not done
 Project Metadata - not done
 Read PMC Branding Responsibilities - not done

Issues for board consideration
 None.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

The Xalan XSLT community is becoming active and porting the current
XALAN-C code base to Windows Studio 2010.  There have been some
significant feature additions and code improvements in the repository.

We've also had some discussion on having a Xalan-J release [1] which would roll
up bug fixes already on the trunk.

The Xalan Documentation Project has web pages ready for review and
the construction tools should be submitted to the SVN repository
before the end of November.

The xalan-dev mail list is now seeing 40-50 posts per month.

Long-standing issues in JIRA are being resolved.

Progress on the ASF Project Branding Requirements:

1. DOAP files are now in place for both Xalan-J and Xalan-C++.
2. The xalan.apache.org TLP site needs an overhaul to comply with the guidelines
and we intend to redesign it.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

The committers continue to focus on improving the schema validator's
conformance to the XML Schema 1.1 specification and are closing in
on a 100% pass rate for the W3C test cases. This work should help
the specification move towards becoming a W3C recommendation.

Our two GSoC students successfully completed their projects. We look
forward to integrating their contributions into a future release.

Mailing list traffic has been moderate; about 165+ posts on the
j-dev and j-users lists since the beginning of August.

No new releases this quarter.

Xerces-C

No major development activity during the reporting period.

Mailing list traffic has been moderate; about 80+ posts on the
c-dev and c-users lists since the beginning of August.

No new releases this quarter.

Xerces-P

Nothing in particular to report. There was no development activity
over the reporting period.

XML Commons

Several minor improvements were made to the XML Commons Resolver in
September and October. Otherwise it's been a quiet period with no
mailing list traffic to report.

The website and SVN location still need to be moved over from the
XML project.

Apache Project Branding Requirements

There's still some work left to do on the TLP website, including
adding TM to the project logo. No progress this quarter.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache XML Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General
=======

I announced that I will step down as PMC Chair at short notice.

XML Graphics Commons
====================

There has been almost no developer activity. The previous release,
version 1.4, was in July 2010. There are no preparations for a new
release.

Batik
=====

There has been no developer activity. Most but not all questions on
the user list are getting answers. The latest release, version 1.7,
was in January 2008. A fair amount of fixes have been accumulated
since then, but there are no preparations for a new release.

Fop
===

Developer activity has been somewhat low. The user list is as active
as ever, and questions are answered actively. The previous release,
version 1.0, was in July 2010.

The Complex Scripts project has delivered its fifth patch. With this
patch the project has realized good functionality which can be
presented to FOP's users. After intense discussions about the question
whether the Complex Scripts code could be merged into trunk, the merge
was approved.

FOP has been supported over the past years by a single company. This
company paid for the efforts which brought FOP to where it is now. As
a consequence, this company now has a dominant presence in the team of
committers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache Deltacloud Project

Deltacloud defines a web service API for interacting with cloud service
providers and resources in those clouds in a unified manner. In
addition, it consists of a number of implementations of this API for the
most popular clouds. 

Their are no issues for board consideration

Community:

A slight uptick of user questions on the mailing list. No new
committers; a couple of talks given by Michal Fojtik and by me at small
events (meetups etc.)

Releases/Development:

Lots of work on the DMTF CIMI frontend; added support for OpenStack;
usual slate of bugfixes

Plan on making 0.5.0 release in December

Project setup:

As Deltacloud graduated to TLP at the end of October, still working on
migrating out of incubator. Infrastructure ticket[1] filed for the
various migration tasks.

[1] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-4112

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Status report for the Apache JMeter Project

The Apache JMeter desktop application is a Java application designed to load
test functional behavior and measure performance.

The Apache JMeter TLP was created on Oct 26 2011; previously JMeter
was a Jakarta subproject.

All JMeter resources - website, SVN, mailinglists, release
distribution - have now been moved from the Jakarta umbrella to its
own TLP, with the exception of archived versions, which still reside
under the jakarta/jmeter directory tree.

The user mailing list was renamed (so kept its subscribers) and
remains fairly busy.

There don't seem to have been any user issues with the change to TLP status.

Work continues on fixing bugs and implementing new features.

Branding checklist:
- Project Website Basics - done
- Website Navigation Links - done
- Trademark Attributions - done
- Logos and Graphics - done
- Project Metadata (DOAP) - done
It is believed that all the branding requirements have been completed.

There are no board level issues at this time.

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the November 16, 2011 board meeting.
