                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             May 19, 2011


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at 10:02
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare:

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Noirin Plunkett

    Directors Absent:

        Greg Stein
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci
        Craig L Russell
        Grant Ingersoll
        Brian Fox
        Daniel Kulp

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of 2011_03_16.

    Minutes were approved by general consent.

    B. The meeting of 2011_04_20.

    Minutes were approved by general consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Doug]

       After months without measurable progress towards getting
       Sonatype to publicly acknowledge our Maven trademark, I gave
       the Maven PMC a deadline.  Late last month I told the PMC that,
       if Sonatype does not publicly acknowledge the mark by the time
       of this board meeting then the board will find a way to resolve
       the issue itself.

    B. President [Jim]

       The big news this month is that the ASF was served, and I signed for,
       a subpoena from Oracle related to their suit against Google. This was
       copied to the VP Legal who has further information on this in his
       report.

       The foundation now has an additional (part-time) SysAdmin, to
       help our 2 full-timers as well as the roster of volunteers.

       Our EA has been busy helping coordinating both the Retreat/BarCamp
       and the ApacheCon events.

       I attended OSBC earlier this week (again, thanks to the board for
       pushing this board meeting out a day so I could attend). One of
       my panel discussions was regarding the ASF and our IP governance
       process (also on the panel were representatives from Eclipse,
       OuterCurve and the Linux Foundation). Despite being the last
       session on the last day, it was extremely well attended.

       I am tentatively scheduled to attend a series of focus groups
       in DC regarding how to leverage some of the methods used within
       the ASF (the so-called "Apache Way") to build communities around
       some government open-sourcing efforts. I will also be presenting
       at the Open Repositories conference in Austin next month on a
       similar topic.

       From a top-level, foundation-wide view, the ASF is running smoothly.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

    D. Secretary [Craig]

       Good news: not much news.

       In April, 29 ICLAs, one grant, five CCLAs, and one NDA were
       received and filed.

    E. Executive Vice President [Noirin]
       
       Nothing to report.

    F. Vice Chairman [Greg]

       Still hanging out, doing the Vice Chairman thang. Nada to report.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Sam]

       See Attachment 3

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Geir]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Noirin]

       See Attachment 7

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Plunkett]

       See Attachment 8

       Roy would like to see total ASF cost including TAC and cost per
       attendee reported at the conclusion of each concom event.

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Jim]

       See Attachment 9

       It was observed that some account creation requests were not
       done for over a month. Prior experience was that accounts were
       processed weekly. 

       Should not happen again.

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Roy]

       See Attachment 10

       More detailed and more timely reporting is required about TAC
       attendees at concom events.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Ant Elder / Shane]

       See Attachment A

       In case of very quiet quarters, an indication of the last
       activity will be helpful for the board to judge the health of
       the project.

    B. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Jim]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Buildr Project [Alex Boisvert / Bertrand]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache C++ Standard Library Project [Martin Sebor / Greg]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Cassandra Project [Jonathan Ellis / Doug]

       See Attachment E

       Roy is impressed that with nine releases this quarter, they are
       still unsatisfied by "long feature creep".

    F. Apache Chemistry Project [Florian Müller / Sam]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Click Project [Malcolm Edgar / Jim]

       See Attachment G

       Roy notes that the list traffic is ambiguous. Shane concurs.

    H. Apache Cocoon Project [Vadim Gritsenko / Geir]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache Community Development Project [Ross Gardler / Roy]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Continuum Project [Emmanuel Venisse / Greg]

       See Attachment J

       AI Greg: find out the status of the security release

    K. Apache CouchDB Project [Jan Lehnardt / Doug]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache Directory Project [Pierre-Arnaud Marcelot / Shane]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Bertrand]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache HTTP Server Project [William A. Rowe Jr. / Noirin]

       See Attachment N

       Greg notes that "committee roster" should be "PMC".

    O. Apache HttpComponents Project [Asankha Perera / Bertrand]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Shane]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache jUDDI Project [Kurt Stam / Geir]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Lenya Project [Richard Frovarp / Greg]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Doug]

       See Attachment S

    T. Apache Perl Project [Philippe M. Chiasson / Sam]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache POI Project [Nick Burch / Noirin]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Roy]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache River Project [Tom Hobbs / Jim]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Jim]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache Santuario Project [Colm O hEigeartaigh / Shane]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache Subversion Project [Greg Stein / Noirin]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Turbine Project [Thomas Vandahl / Roy]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Tuscany Project [Ant Elder / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Velocity Project [Nathan Bubna / Greg]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Doug]

       No report was received.
       AI Bertrand: follow up to move Xalan to the Attic.

    AE. Apache Xerces Project [Michael Glavassevich / Sam]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Geir]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache XML Graphics Project [Simon Pepping / Shane]

       See Attachment AG

    AH. Apache Lucene Special Report [Grant Ingersoll]
       
        See Attachment AH
       
   All received executive officers' reports and committee reports
   were approved by general consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache Libcloud Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to an application programming
       interface (API) that abstracts away the differences among
       multiple cloud provider APIs, for distribution at no charge to
       the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Libcloud Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Libcloud Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
       that provides a vendor-independent abstraction as an API layer
       above multiple cloud provider APIs; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Libcloud" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache Libcloud Project, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the projects within the scope of
       responsibility of the Apache Libcloud Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Libcloud Project:

         * Eric Woods (woodser@apache.org)
         * Jed Smith (jed@apache.org)
         * Jeremiah Orem(oremj@apache.org)
         * Jerry Chen (jerry@apache.org)
         * Paul Querna (pquerna@apache.org)
         * Roman Bogorodskiy (rbogorodskiy@apache.org)
         * Tom Davis (tom@apache.org)
         * Tomaz Muraus (tomaz@apache.org)

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Tomaz Muraus
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Libcloud, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,
       or until a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Libcloud PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Libcloud Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Libcloud Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator Libcloud podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator Libcloud podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       Project are hereafter discharged.

      Resolution 7A was approved unanimously by roll call vote.

 8. Discussion Items

   A. Sonatype's failure to publicly acknowledge Maven trademark (Doug)

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Sam: find out what's going on with Bluesky
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: discuss release policy with Lab folks
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: follow up with Synapse re no releases since 2008
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: follow up with HBase to clarify the "developer release" term.

    * Doug: Suggest to Noel that JSPWiki needs a nudge.
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: Find out whether Shindig can use internal Hudson.

    * Jim: work with EA on a calendar (e.g. due dates for external reports)
           Status: In progress

    * Jim: arrange for a public announcement of new members
           Status: In progress

    * Jim: follow up with conference planning committee on missing report
        Status: Complete

    * Doug: follow up with Stdcxx project
              Status: done.

    * Shane: follow up with Cocoon branding
             Status: done.

    * Shane: follow up with HISE on commercial deployments
             Status: done.

    * Shane: follow up with Maven letter for PMC review
             Status: moot.

    * Philip: retire mod_perl 1.x: 
             Status: libapreq got no opposition, mp did, I'll sort it out yet.

    * Greg: follow up with Roller PMC chair to improve report

    * Sam: move xalan to attic
             Status: transferred to Bertrand.

    * Jim: move xml project to attic
           Status: Not done

    * Philip: follow up on /dist with Perl PMC
              Status: NEW

    New action items added this board meeting:

    Greg: find out the status of the Continuum security release.
    Bertrand: follow up to move Xalan to the Attic.
    Doug: set up next members' meeting.

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

    A. Executive session (Doug)

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

The meeting went into executive session at 10:46.

During the executive session, the following resolution passed unanimously.

Special Order 11A. Change the Maven PMC chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Brian Fox to the 
       office of Vice President, Apache Maven, and 

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors desires to facilitate
       and expedite discussions regarding potential infringements of the
       Apache Maven trademark;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Brian Fox is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of
       Vice President, Apache Maven, and 

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Maven, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor
       is appointed.

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

Operations And Community
========================

It is clear from a number of events recently that we still have a significant
amount of work to do in explaining our branding policy both to our projects as
well as to the many vendors who use our products.

The Domain Name Branding Policy up for a [VOTE] to finalize which I hope to
announce the results of immediately after the board meeting.

I have asked legal-internal@ to begin the process of registering our "Hadoop"
mark for our software product.

External Requests
=================

The Maven PMC has contacted Sonatype about their non-attribution of our Maven
trademark, however Sonatype has not yet (as of this writing) responded.  
The PMC is also continuing work with Sonatype on the issue of the central 
repository oversight and branding issues.

Concom has been alerted that Cloudera is planning to run their Hadoop World
conference in NYC simultaneously with ApacheCon in Vancouver.  While there
is an agreement about their conference name, this points out the fact that we
need to ensure that any brand licensing policies we have have very clear
expectations and especially are carefully reviewed to ensure they cover all
aspects that are important to our brand image and our communities health.

Joyent based their new Trademark policy for Node.js on our formal policy as
they blogged, which was a nice recognition of our work:

  http://blog.nodejs.org/2011/04/29/trademark/


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

SPONSORSHIP
We have a new sponsorship invoice template.  I'm going to be committing
the files in SVN to financials/Invoices/<year>/<datestamp>-<sponsor>
naming conventions.  I've got two to commit shortly.

Yahoo! is officially renewing as a platinum sponsor.  Calls and emails
have it all worked out, invoice was sent and accepted.

Talend is a new bronze sponsor.  Marketing and PR reviewed Talend's press
release.  Talend made the announcement last week, we got the invoice out
this week, and we're all set.

The wire payment from PSW group bounced back to them.  I have contacted
our Treasurer, and we're looking into which bank had a problem or if
there was an account number transcription error.

Renewals this month: Google and AMD.

DONATIONS
We had one donor ask for confirmation that they'll get a letter, and was
satisfied with the response.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

ASF MARKETING & PUBLICITY STATUS: MAY 2011

I. Budget: final payments are now complete, and all vendor invoices have
been paid against the FY2010-2011 budget. The HALO contract ends on 30
May 2011; Sally Khudairi will be discussing requirements for the
upcoming fiscal year with Jim Jagielski.


II. Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: Sally is currently liaising
with a Sponsor (on behalf of ConCom) regarding a scheduling conflict
with their Apache-oriented conference and ApacheCon. Sally connected
with a new Sponsor at the Bronze level and edited/facilitated their
sponsorship press announcement as well as helped with their submitting
proposals for ApacheCon. Sally is also still working with Greg Stein to
connect with a sponsor regarding publicity on a sponsorship renewal.


III. Press Releases: no formal press releases were issued over the PR
NewsWire service during this time period.


IV. Informal Announcements: the following announcements were distributed
to our dedicated press/analyst list (not PR Newswire), as well as posted
on the ASF blog and Twitter feed:

- 12 May: Welcome Talend as Bronze-level Sponsors of The Apache Software
Foundation. http://apache.org/foundation/thanks.html

- 4 May: The Apache Software Foundation Subpoenaed to Produce Documents
in Oracle America vs. Google http://s.apache.org/ReS

- 4 May: Get your search on. Presentations by Grant Ingersoll, VP Apache
Lucene + members of the Solr community 23-26 May/SFO
http://bit.ly/cg3x34

- 4 May: Meet ASF Chairman Doug Cutting + notable Apache community
members 6-7 June @BerlinBuzzwords berlinbuzzwords.de #Hadoop #HBase
#Lucene #Solr

- 4 May: Join us at the Apache Camel, ServiceMix, ActiveMQ, and CXF
Community MeetUp 23 May. All are welcome free of charge!
http://bit.ly/kcF0OX

- 25 April: Final Call for Presentations: Apache and Enterprise
Solutions, Cloud Computing, Community -- deadline this Friday.
http://apachecon.com/

- 25 April: The April Netcraft Survey is in: the Apache HTTP Web Server
remains the leading Web server, powering more than 191 Million sites
worldwide!


All PMCs are invited to forward success stories and innovative uses of
Apache products for the "Did You Know?" Twitter campaign. Please contact
Sally at press-AT-apache-DOT-org for more information.


V. Media Relations: we received several inquiries from the press in
response to the Oracle subpoena; Geir Magnusson and members of the ASF
Legal committee handled all interviews thoroughly and efficiently. We
are beginning to work with the press on long-lead pitches, particularly
as they relate to ApacheCon and dovetailing the overall conference theme
"Open Source Enterprise Solutions, Cloud Computing, and Community
Leadership" with current/ongoing activities at the ASF. Sally has also
been meeting face-to-face with a small handful of editors to see how we
can improve our working relationship, particularly with projects having
strong commercial backing and publicity.


VI. Analyst Relations: a researcher from a top-tier firm has expressed
in interest getting more details on two projects from his following our
"Did You Know?" listings on Twitter.


VII. ApacheCon liaison: Sally continues to work on top-level conference
marketing and publicity strategy, as well as securing media sponsorship
and community partners.


VIII. (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison: we are promoting
the ASF's participation at external conferences and Apache-focused
events, such as Berlin Buzzwords, Lucene Revolution, and OSCON,
primarily through the @ApacheCon Twitter feed, and occasionally on
@TheASF feed.


IX. PR Newswire account: we have 11 pre-paid press releases with
PRNewswire through 3 March 2012.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

[verbal report]

I attended the Advisory Council meeting, where the license for HTML5
was a hot issue.  This has yet to be resolved, and there is a survey
of AC members proceeding.

Additionally, we expect HTML5 to proceed to last call later this month.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

The big news is that we received a subpoena from Oracle to supply documents
that may relate to their ongoing litigation with Google.  The SFLC has been
chosen to coordinate the response to this request.  An extension request has
been made and granted.

Next to that, the longest thread on the legal-discuss mailing list involved
a law student trying to get us to provide interpretations in response to
licensing questions.  I'm pleased to report that everybody at the ASF
responded appropriately with suggestions ranging from "get a lawyer" to "go
read a book".

Other threads include historical data relating to various ongoing trademark
issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For April 2011: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@.  These continue to be dealt with
by the security team.

1      Support question
4      Vulnerability reports
       1      [infrastructure, via security@apache.org]
       1      [xerces, via security@apache.org]
       1      [httpd, via security@apache.org] CLOSED, not an issue
       1      [struts, via security@struts.apache.org] CLOSED, no issues


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

Knockree Retreat
----------------
Around 30 committers came out to Ireland last weekend. The BarCamp part went
well, with lots of interesting sessions, and several projects got plenty of
coding done. Thanks to the volunteers who helped with the driving and the
organising, and also to Alfresco for the beer!

While everyone at the event seemed to enjoy it, and everyone quizzed agreed it
was a good event, signup numbers were lower than hoped. The format seems to
work well for those who come, but we're going to need to look into how we
advertise / explain this style of event.

ApacheCon NA11 
-------------- 
The CFP has closed, and a provisional schedule with 5 tracks was worked out at
the retreat (with assistance from anyone who stayed near the main table too
long!). The schedule was then discussed on the planners list, and has now been
passed to the producer. Notifications should be going out shortly, though
talks selected as the backup session for a track may not be notified for a
bit longer (depending on if a first choice speaker declines).

Cloudera have announced Hadoop World, produced under a MOU for the use of the
brand. Unfortunately, this clashes with ApacheCon, and the MOU lacked a clause
preventing this. The guidelines have been updated for future conferences, and
Sally has kindly been working with Cloudera to try to make the best of the
situation. We do still have a strong set of Hadoop talks from non-Cloudera PMC
members.

BarCamps
--------
A BarCampApache in Oxford for September has been approved. As part of this, it
is planned that a few new organisers from outside Oxford will join the team,
be mentored through the process, and attend. This should increase the pool of
available organisers to help spread the geographic reach of our BarCamps. An
announcement to committers about how to take part in this, and a general
reminder about organising events, should go out shortly.

Several people have come forward interested in running a BarCampApache in
their home town, but none are yet quite ready. Mentors have been found for
these potential organisers.

Ross, Nick and Sally have been in discussions with a possible local organiser
for a post-ApacheCon BarCamp in Vancouver.

Other Events
------------
Jimmy Ling is working with several others to put together a proposal for
another Asian RoadShow, likely for August. There are some outstanding
questions on the format and location before it can be approved.

Future ApacheCons
-----------------
There was lots of discussions in Knockree about possible future models for
ApacheCon. Several people have agreed to start investigating the options for a
community (non-commercial) event in Europe. We need to come up with a better
idea of what we'd want for a commercial one before we can sound out possible
producers to work with to come up with an alternate model. It's unlikely that
we'll have anything to bring to the board for at least a few months though

Committee
---------
I have enjoyed chairing this committee for the last two year; however, it's now
time for a new VP. Nominations were open for two weeks; three candidates were
nominated, but two turned down their nominations. A vote on the remaining 
candidate is ongoing.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Migrated people.apache.org (aka minotaur) to HP gear.

Discussed changing our Dell rep to a reseller better suited
for our business.

Received Technologent invoice via OSUOSL.

Started the initial steps of transferring ownership of
jini.net to the ASF.

Tony Stevenson was brought on board as our third contracted
(part-time) sysadmin.

Setup ACLs to allow PMC members to browse the archives of
their own private lists.

Setup infrastructure for storing PGP fingerprints in LDAP.

Discussed the addition of a benchmark-running host for projects
to use, particularly lucene.

Continued pursuing the offenders on the XSS list reported to us
by security@ last month.

Scheduled an infra meetup to happen at the Surge conference
at the end of September.

Investigating some uptime problems with sigyn (tlp zones).

Received a pair of D53J JBODs from Silicon Mechanics, with
a partial refund (directed to treasurer@) for delays and lower
performance drives.

Addressing management of dist/ trees as requested by Greg Stein


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

No changes to membership since last report.

TAC had approved 2 attendees for the Knocktree event in Ireland.
We should get feedback ready for next month on how they went.

Only two whole emails this month since last report, concluding that
we will start advertising TAC and open up applications for AC NA 11
within the next couple of weeks.

No other news.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

Apache Abdera provides Java implementations of the IETF Atom
Syndication Format and Publishing Protocol specifications.

Abdera was very quiet this quarter. There were no commits or dev list
discussion and just a few posts to the user list and one new patch
from a user submitted.

There are no board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

Apache Ant is a build tool primarily for Java projects.

o Release Status

There have been no new releases in this report period. The current releases 
are:

Core
---------
Ant 1.8.2 was released on Dec 27th, 2010.

Ivy
-------
Ivy 2.2.0 was released on October 7, 2010
Ivy-DE 2.1.0 was released on Aug 20, 2010

o Community

There has been some concern expressed on the PMC about the size of the
bug backlog for both Ant core and Ivy. The resulting delays/inaction
may be causing some frustration in the community.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Buildr Project

We released Buildr 1.4.5 in February shortly after our last status update;
version 1.4.5 was a combination of small improvements and bug fixes.

There's been practically no development activity since and things have been
relatively quiet on the mailing list front. We still have a few outstanding
contributions sitting in Jira that need some cleanup and/or committer time to
integrate them.

We have no issues that require board attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache C++ Standard Library Project

Notable changes since previous report (February 2011):

  No changes. Stdcxx continues to be dormant. There was a flurry of emails
  on the stdcxx-dev list suggesting continued interest from the same two
  parties (ARM and Sun) but no new work.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Cassandra Project

Cassandra is a distributed database combining the best of Google's
Bigtable and Amazon's Dynamo.

--Highlights--

After a prolonged 0.7 release with a lot of feature creep, Cassandra
has switched to a time-based release for 0.8 and expect to have it
out by the end of May.  Notable features include counter support
and CQL, an SQL-based query language with extensions for Cassandra's
sparse-row data model.

--Releases--

0.6.12, 0.6.13, 0.7.1, 0.7.2, 0.7.3, 0.7.4, 0.7.5, 0.8b1, 0.8b2

--Community--

Added Sylvain Lebresne as committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Chemistry Project

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide an implementation of the CMIS
(Content Management Interoperability Services) specification in
Java, Python, PHP, and .NET (and possibly other languages).
The project has graduated in February 2011.

== Project status ==

The project activity has slowed down a bit. We only had minor
improvements and a few bug fixes in OpenCMIS and DotCMIS.

The OpenCMIS Browser Binding sandbox project has been merged into the
OpenCMIS server framework. The development of the browser binding will
be continued there.


== Community ==

No changes within the last four weeks.
A vote for a new committer has been started.
A few committers met at the Apache Retreat in Knockree.


== Releases ==

No releases within the last four weeks.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Click Project

Apache Click is an easy-to-use page and component oriented Java web framework.

There are no board level issues at this time.

Infrastructure
-------------------
There are no infrastructure issues at this time.

Development
------------------
Apache Click 2.3.0 final is now available was released on the 27th March 2011

ClickIDE 2.3.0.0 released was released on the 5th April 2011

Community
----------------
There have been no new committer or PMC members added during this period.

Mailing list traffic has been  average than usual.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Development of Cocoon 3.0 continues, closing in on the next alpha
release. Cocoon 2.x branch saw couple of fixes too. Traffic on both
dev and users lists remains light. We have added a new committer and
PMC member, Francesco Chicchiriccò. There has been no new releases
this quarter.

Implementation of the branding guidelines (specifically, changing
page footers, and couple of other minor tweaks) has stalled due to
Cocoon's CMS being down since zones migration.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Community Development Project

Project Status
--------------

No issues require board attention at this time.

Community
---------

Google Summer of Code is underway and once again we have plenty of eager 
students and mentors. Even more refreshing is that we have a completely 
new team of admins to spread the load around.

We are still not doing a good job of foundation level PR around our 
mentoring opportunities.

Other mentoring activities are slow, with 5 interested parties approaching
us over the last quarter. The third pilot of the OpenSE project which keeps
promising to bring waves of students to us is now underway, but no signs
of significant activity yet.

Use of apache-extras.org is increasing (100 projects at time of writing). 
We are noticing a number of projects suggesting it as a home for 
extension projects that cannot use the Apache licence as a result of 
dependencies. 

There is some work underway to formally document Apaches expectations 
that projects will be run independently of company affiliation.

Objectives for next period
--------------------------

Complete GSoC and make an appropriate press release upon completion.

Improve documentation about independence of Apache projects


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Continuum Project

Below are the important events that happened in the project since February.

Releases
--------

No release.

Development
-----------

Since february, we have a very little activity on the project. Nothing on the
dev mailing list this month.
However, some patches were applied for security vulnerability that came out of
the work in Archiva. We should do a release off Continuum 1.3.x branch and
trunk as mitigation for these security issues.

Community
---------

No new committer.

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache CouchDB Project

Apache CouchDB is a distributed JSON document database with HTTP API.

Change of PMC Chair from Damien Katz to Jan Lehnardt.

Added Robert Dionne and Randall Leeds as committers.

About to release maintenance version 1.0.3 as well as a new feature release
1.1.0. New features include:

- native SSL support,
- many fixes to edge-cases in replication,
- database for persistent replication setups,
- HTTP range request support,
- new, scalable OS process handling,
- native HTTP proxy support for externals,

The 1.1.0 release was announced in the previous board report but was delayed
due to bug fixing efforts as well as a delay in the release procedure. The
release process is ongoing now, though.

Major cleanup of JIRA issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Community:
* No new commiter or PMC member.
* A misunderstanding between two PMC members came to a situation where
a chair rotation vote was launched in January by a PMC member and then
rejected by the chairman.
This misunderstanding between the two PMC members was about releasing
version 2.0 of ApacheDS.
One party was trying to push a release, while the chairmain was concerned
with "potential" commercial interests instead of focusing on code quality
first.
The chair rotation vote was interpreted as a retaliatory action by the
chair, who rejected the rotation, recalling that it can't be used as a tool
for retaliatory purposes. The chairman indicated his will to continue to
fulfill his duty and that rotation could take place a little later, after
the situation was diffused to prevent a tour de force situation.
Afterwards, things calmed down, both members took some time to discuss in
details and the dispute was settled. No release occured but it was decided
to move to an incremental milestones, then RCs, then formal releases cycle
which allows more frequent releases without compromising code quality.
Both parties came to the conclusion that it was only a big
misunderstanding.
As the chairman recommended, three months later, he requested a formal vote
for chair rotation, which was a success.
A highly toxic situation that could severely damage the community was
successfully avoided thanks to the understanding of all those involved.

Development:
* We are working on finalizing a first (official) release of the Apache
Directory LDAP API.
There has been an important reorganization in projects hierarchy and a
good cleaning of the overall APIs.
A first draft of the documentation for the API has been started on the
wiki
Three milestone versions has been released (see below).
* We are still working on versions 2.0 for Apache DS and Apache Directory
Studio which need a little more work.
First milestones releases could be out in the next two months with RC
following them probably around September.
* Before the version 2.0 of Apache Directory Studio comes out, it has been
decided to release a 1.5.4 bug fix version (the last version, 1.5.3, is
already one year old).

Releases:
* Three milestone releases of the Apache Directory LDAP API:
* 1.0.0-M1 (February 18th 2011)
* 1.0.0-M2 (March 15th 2011)
* 1.0.0-M3 (April 22th 2011)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None.

Changes in the PMC membership:
  None

General status:
  The most recent release is 0.9 on 2011-02-07.

  Development has generally been quiet for the quarter. (However see the OSGi
  note below.) Two PMC members have been active this quarter, and three
  others have indicated their presence..

  On the dev mail list there was some interest from another ASF committer and
  a patch. If they return then perhaps a new committer candidate.

  The user mail list is the most quiet that i have ever seen it. It has never
  been a big volume list. There was no follow-up regarding the recent release.
  Perhaps we did such a good job that nobody needed help.

  There was one question on the user mail list which was attended to by a PMC
  member.

Progress of the project:
  Some important supporting products were upgraded.

  One of our PMC members commenced a new effort for Forrest as OSGi framework.
  We encourage other people to investigate this initial work.

  Our dist and archives area was always tidy, many thanks to Stefan's Mirror
  Guide document.

Attend to project branding:
  (Same note as last report.)
  Most of this is now done. The main banner now has TM. Not yet done for the
  other project logo.
  Many plugin sites need to be re-deployed. As this gradually happens, the
  changes will be reflected.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

  The project continues to make steady progress towards a beta and subsequent
  GA release of the httpd 2.4.0 code.  httpd 2.3.11-beta was released in
  March, and httpd-2.2.18 was released in May, while 2.3.12-beta is tagged and
  currently in the release vote process.

  Dan Poirier was added to the committee roster.  No other changes to the
  active committers or committee roster.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project

Status
 * Overall the project remains active.


Releases
 * HttpClient 4.1.1 GA was released on the 21st of March 2011


Development
 * There was a proposal to move a fluent interface for HttpClient,
built in Stanbol to be moved into HttpComponents. This was
proposed as a GSoc project as well.

 * The HttpAsyncClient has been making progress with more features
targeting a 4.0 Alpha 2 release towards end of May

 * We have decided to discontinue Java 1.3 compatibility for
HttpCore after 4.1.1. The 4.2 branch will move to Java 1.5, and
will remove deprecated code between 4.0-beta1 and 4.0 GA releases


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Incubator Report May 2011

The Incubator continues to accept and graduate projects a pace.  This month
we have two new projects, one retirement (with two more likely), and one
graduation.

Imperius has voted to retire.  Others are likely to follow (see below).

LibCloud is proposed for graduation to TLP status, and presenting to the
Board as such.

OGNL, a Java development framework for Object-Graph Navigation Language, was
accepted for Incubation.

Airavata, a project that provides features to compose, manage, execute, and
monitor large scale applications and workflows on computational resources
ranging from local clusters to national grids and computing clouds, has been
accepted for Incubation.

Bluesky did not report, but did report last month and may not realize it is
still on a monthly reporting schedule.  DeltaCloud did not report, and is
active so they should have reported.  HISE and Stonehenge did not report,
and both look ripe for retirement.  The latter community is actively
discussing that this month, but simply failed to report that discussion, and
the former appears mostly dead already.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Incubator Project reports
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Amber

Amber has been incubating since July 2010. Amber is a project to develop a
Java library which provides an API specification for, and an unconditionally
compliant implementation of the OAuth v1.0, v1.0a and v2.0 specifications.
OAuth is a mechanism that allows users to authenticate and authorise access
by another party to resources they control while avoiding the need to share
their username and password credentials.

The most important issues that must be addressed before graduation are:

 - Attract users and developers
 - Generate a release

The Incubator PMC / ASF Board should be aware that:

 - Community activity is relatively low

How has the community developed since the last report

 - Some users have started asking for help or getting started guides on the
mailing list

How has the project developed since the last report

 - Fixed some bugs
 - Removed LGPL licensed files from website


--------------------

Bluesky

Did not report (currently on monthly schedule), but did report in April.


--------------------

Clerezza

(incubating since November 27th, 2009) is an OSGi-based modular application
and set of components (bundles) for building RESTFul Semantic Web
applications and services.

There are currently no issues requiring board attention.

Recent activity:

 - Added WebId test suite
 - Added Clerezza-UIMA CAS Consumer
 - Released a new website version with much more documentation

Next steps:

 - First release
 - Improve documentation and tutorial to website


Top 2/3 Issues before graduation:

 - Prepare some easy-to-run demos to get people interested in Clerezza


--------------------

Deltacloud

Did not report.  Is active, and simply failed to report.


--------------------

Droids

Droids is an Incubator project arrived from Apache Labs. Droids entered
incubation on October, 2008.

It's an intelligent standalone robot framework that allows one to create and
extend existing web robots.

The last three months have been very productive for the project since
mailing and issue tracking activity have been very good. Our two new
committer have driven our first release which is planed for this month. More
people appeared on the mailing list and especially one dev is driving
constantly enhancement in our issue tracker.

Issues before graduation :

 * IP clearance


--------------------

HCatalog

HCatalog is a table and storage management service for data created
using Apache Hadoop.

The most important issues in moving the project to graduation are
expanding the community of developers and producing a release of the
software.

Since the last report we have:

 * got the initial code drop checked in
 * got the build working for building, testing, and the documents
 * branched in preparation for a 0.1 release
 * started development on new features for 0.2

Currently there are 29 subscribers to the user list and 27 on the dev
list.  There were 14 and 15 respectively last month.


--------------------

HISE

Did not report.  Appears largely inactive, and perhaps should be retired.


--------------------

Jena

Jena was accepted into the Apache Incubator November 2010. It is an existing
project migrating to ASF. It has a large codebase that provides a semantic
web framework in Java that implements the key W3C recommendations for the
core semantic web technologies of
RDF and SPARQL.

Three most important issues to address for graduation:

* Create a code base in Apache with legal clearance.
* Establish the Apache-based community for developers, contributors and
users
* Create and communicate open project processes aligned to Apache

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

None.

Community development:

We have started to advertise the existence of Apache-hosted mailing lists.
Traffic on these lists continues to grow.

A new work area on enhancing the native storage system with transaction
support is being conducted in public on Apache cwiki and mailing lists.

Project development:

We have received the software grant from HP; HP has copyright on the
majority of the codebase.  We can now migrate the code to Apache
infrastructure, and contact previous contributors for the remaining areas
(these are small in number and scope).


--------------------

Libcloud

Libcloud is a unified interface into various cloud service providers,
written in Python. Libcloud joined the Incubator on 3 November 2009.

During this month we have addressed all of the open graduation issues and
started a TLP voting thread on the incubator mailing list.

Community
---------

The Libcloud community continues to grow at a nice steady pace. In the past
few months we have received multiple community contributions, some of them
are listed bellow:

- compute driver for Gandi.net
- compute driver for Bluebox.net
- compute driver for the OpSource cloud
- compute driver for OpenStack (not merged yet, still working with the
original author on polishing it and resolving some open issues)
- libvirt proof-of-concept compute driver (not merged yet, still debating on
how we can fit it into our project)

During this month (May) we have also agreed upon a new chair (Tomaz Muraus).

To make our website more easy to update and more relevant to the users we
have ported it to the Apache CMS and added two new sections - "Community
resources" and "Contributing".

Some of the Libcloud developers have also been present at PyCon in Atlanta
in March where we have held a sprint.

As part of our ongoing effort to engage the community and inspire new
contributors, one of the committers will give a talk about Libcloud at
EuroPython 2011 in Italy where we will also held a sprint.

Releases
--------

The last stable release of Libcloud is 0.4.2 which was released on January
17th. We are currently working towards 0.5.0 which is considered as a big
milestone, because it will include many new features, fixes and
improvements:

- new Storage API
- new Load-balancer API
- new compute drivers
- fixes in the existing compute drivers
- increased test coverage

This version is planned to be released before the end of May.


--------------------

Lucene.NET

Lucene.Net was accepted into the Apache Incubator in February 2011.
Originally it was a sub project of the Lucene Project.

Lucene.Net is a port of the Lucene search engine library, written in C# and
targeted at .NET runtime users. Lucene.Net has three primary goals:
* Maintain the existing line-by-line port from Java to C#, fully automating
and commoditizing the process such that the project can easily synchronize
with the Java Lucene release schedule.
* High-performance C# search engine library.
* Maximize usability and power when used within the .NET runtime. To that
end, it will present a highly idiomatic, carefully tailored API that takes
advantage of many of the special features of the .NET runtime.

Recent Activity:

* Lucene.Net 2.9.4 is in the trunk and currently being tested
* Continuous Integration, Unit Testing, and Code Coverage has been fully
vetted

Current Activities:

* Release Lucene.Net 2.9.4
* Refactoring of project files for the main trunk, allowing us to fully
implement CI, Unit Testing, and Code Coverage
* Develop a process to automatically (as much as possible) convert the Java
Lucene code to C# (to maintain our line by line port)

Goals for graduation:

* Have a nearly fully automated process to convert Java Lucene to C#.
* Release Lucene.Net 3.0.3 (port of Java Lucene 3.0.3)
* Have a new .NET version of Lucene utilizing .NET constructs and idioms


--------------------

Mesos

Mesos is a cluster manager that provides resource sharing and isolation
across cluster applications.

Mesos entered incubation on December 23rd, 2010.

Community
* Mesos is actively being used at Twitter, Conviva, UCSF and UC Berkeley.

Project development
* We are still working on importing the source code to Apache, after having
merged in some major features this month (e.g. protocol buffers for
forward-compatible messaging, and improved fault recovery features).

Most important issues to address
* Import source code to Apache SVN
* Move discussion of new features and patches to JIRA
* Put together a first release


--------------------

MRUnit

MRUnit - a library to support unit testing of Hadoop MapReduce jobs.

MRUnit entered incubation on March 8th, 2011.

Community
* Eric Sammer has been leading discussions for a 0.5 release and a release
roadmap beyond that.

Issues before graduation
* Create the MRUnit web site
* Make an incubating release
* Grow the community size and diversity

Licensing and other issues
* none - MRUnit was originally a subproject of Hadoop

--------------------

NPanday

NPanday allows projects using the .NET framework to be built with Apache
Maven. NPanday allows .NET projects to be converted into Maven projects thus
allowing them to fully utilize the other technologies driven by Maven.
NPanday has been incubating since August 2010.

In our previous report (February 2011), we stated that we've staged the
NPanday-1.3-incubating release. However, there were a couple of issues that
we needed to address so we decided to not push through with it.

After addressing those issues, we've staged the NPanday-1.4.0-incubating
release for vote which includes the following issues:

    * Visual Studio 2010 and .Net 4.0 Framework support
    * Removal of UAC and PAB directories
    * Updated groupIds of all NPanday components including plugins to
      "org.apache.npanday"

This release is still waiting for other committers and mentors to test and
get the required binding votes.

Updated documentation was successfully deployed in
http://incubator.apache.org/npanday/docs/1.4.0-incubating/index.html

Code licenses and license headers have all been reviewed and pass RAT.

IP clearance was completed.

We have voted a new committer in the person of John Fallows and we also have
a new mentor, Matthias Wessendorf.

The top priorities towards graduation are:
  * complete 1.4.0-incubating release
  * guide regular patch contributors towards becoming committers
  * improve engagement of existing committers

There are no issues for the Incubator PMC or board at this time.


--------------------

Nuvem

Apache Nuvem will define an open application programming interface for
common cloud application services, allowing applications to be easily ported
across the most popular cloud platforms.

Nuvem was accepted for Incubation on June, 2010.

* John Pradeep elected as Nuvem Committer
* Pasindu Madubashana starting to work on Data Services project as part of
GSoC 2011
* Community has started to be more active, with about 3 to 4 active
committers + the new GSoC student.

Top things to resolve prior to graduation:
  * Increase the number of active committers.


--------------------

OGNL

Apache OGNL is a Java development framework for Object-Graph Navigation
Language, plus other extras such as list projection and selection and lambda
expressions.

The project just joined the Incubator on April 26, 2011.

What is needed to start, is resolving all the Issues enlisted on INFRA-3597,
resolution is in progress, actions have been completed are:

 * PMC ML creation in discussion;
 * Discussed position of PPMC after graduating into Commons;
 * Created podling status page;

What is still in progress, instead:

 * Grant Karma to SVN;
 * Import codebase;


--------------------

OpenNLP

OpenNLP is a machine learning based toolkit for the processing of natural
language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks, such as tokenization,
sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction,
chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution. These tasks are usually
required to build more advanced text processing services.

OpenNLP entered incubation on 11/23 2010.

We just did our first Apache release on 2nd of May and are now planning
which features/work will go into the next release. For instance we started
to discuss/plan a big refactoring of our machine learning code, custom
feature generation for the name finder, dictionary support for the name
finder, etc.

There is still good traffic on both the user and dev mailing list. A couple
of users asked questions about how OpenNLP can be trained for new languages.

A list of the the most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:
 * Resolve potential IP issues around releasing training models
 * Establish open regression tests for the parser and coreference component


--------------------

PhotArk

Apache PhotArk will be a complete open source photo gallery application
including a content repository for the images, a display piece, an access
control layer, and upload capabilities.

PhotArk was accepted for Incubation on August 19, 2008.

 * Subash Chaturanga elected as Photark committer
 * Subash Chaturanga started working on "Face Recognition" project as part
of GSoC 2011
 * Umashanthi Pavalanathan started working on making Photark more "Social"
based on Apache Shindig as part of GSoC 2011

* Issues before graduation :
  * PhotArk started as a project with no initial code-base, and we have
grown the community to the minimal 3 independent committer size required for
graduation and have been seeing slow but continuous interest in the project.
The community started discussion graduation and based on mentors feedback we
are going to recruit couple committers before we start the graduation
process.


--------------------

Rave

Apache Rave is a new web and social mashup engine. It will provide an
out-of-the-box as well as an extendible lightweight Java platform to host,
serve and aggregate (Open)Social Gadgets and services through a highly
customizable and Web 2.0 friendly front-end.

Rave entered incubation on 2011-03-01.

All the three initial code donations have been provided and imported in SVN.

Current Status:
  * The website has been published and continues to be updated regularly
  * The community voted on and accepted a logo
  * Issues have been added to JIRA and a release plan is beginning to form
  * The community has begun working on implementation features and test
cases for the 0.1 incubator release within the project build structure.
  * Community members have submitted proposals for ApacheCon to discuss the
Rave project
  * Mailing list activity remains high

Next steps:
  * Continue to build up awareness of Rave and grow the community
  * Complete a sufficient number of features for a 0.1 incubator release

Issues before graduation:
  * Complete 1.0 release
  * Expand the community/user base


--------------------

SIS

Apache SIS is a toolkit that spatial information system builders or users
can use to build applications containing location context. This project will
look to store reference implementations of spatial algorithms, utilities,
services, etc. as well as serve as a sandbox to explore new ideas. Further,
the goal is to have Apache SIS grow into a thriving Apache top-level
community, where a host of SIS/GIS related software (OGC datastores,
REST-ful interfaces, data standards, etc.) can grow from and thrive under
the Apache umbrella.

* Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

Not at this time

* Community progress since the last report

Since SIS released its first release 0.1-incubating in November 2010,
development has slowed down. This is a small core set of committers and
community though. We haven't had a lot of user mailing list activity.

We should try and target a 0.2-incubating release with a layer service and
some basic integration with Apache Tika (a GDAL parser is being worked on in
that community with an eye towards integration into SIS). Also we are
looking at Apache OODT as a mechanism for geospatial storage and
persistence.

There has been renewed interest from ESRI and we are pursuing this as well.

* Project progress since last report

SIS was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on February 21, 2010.

Development progress since the 0.1-incubating release has been modest,
focusing primarily on the community development mentioned above. There has
been some internal effort at JPL to integrate SIS into ongoing projects such
as the CO2 Portal, the CMDS project and others. We hope to begin the push
towards 0.2-incubating as specified above.


--------------------

Stanbol

Stanbol is a modular software stack and reusable set of components for
semantic content management.
Entered incubation on 2010-11-15.

Community development:
 - some new users started playing with Stanbol and asking for guidance on
the mailing lists

Project activities:
 - lots of package/module refactoring
 - added a benchmark tool for Enhancer
 - KReS module build and tests fixed
 - setup continuous integration with Jenkins
 - added JCR module of CMS Adapter

Next steps:
 - Make a first release, possibly omitting modules with ASF-incompatible
dependencies
 - Grow the community


--------------------

Stonehenge

Did not report.  The community is currently discussing retirement of the
project.


--------------------

VCL

VCL has been incubating since December 2008. VCL is a cloud computing
platform for the management of physical and virtual
machines.https://cwiki.apache.org/VCL/

Community Involvement:
* As stated in the previous report, the Apache VCL community continues to
grow. We're seeing more people start to contribute to our online
documentation and file JIRA issues. We're also starting to see more patches
attached to JIRA issues.
* We continue to see growing interest in the VCL project from a variety of
locations.

Releases:
* We cut a new release that was primarily for bugfixes. Apache VCL 2.2.1 was
released on April 8th, 2011. In our last report, we stated that we had hoped
to get it out by the end of February. Other duties of the developers caused
some of the delay. Additional delay was due to a bug found after the release
voting took place, requiring a new round of voting.

Top Issues Before Graduation:
* Continue to increase contributors to establish a more diverse development
community


--------------------

Whirr

Whirr is a library for running services in the cloud.

Whirr was accepted into the incubator on 11 May 2010. Status information is
available at http://incubator.apache.org/projects/whirr.html.

Progress since the last report (February 2011): We have made the fourth
incubator release (0.4.0-incubating). We continue to get contributions from
outside the initial committer base, and development has been steady over the
period. Whirr continues to be covered at community events, including an
upcoming presentation at OSCON.

Plans for the next period:
  * Encourage community growth.
  * Do a fifth release.
  * Strengthen the core API to make adding new services easier.

Top three items to resolve before graduation:
  * Increase community involvement in the project
  * Make several incubating releases (Done)
  * Support at least three services on Whirr (Done, there are now six)


--------------------
Wink

Apache Wink is a project that enables development and consumption of REST
style web services. The core server runtime is based on the JAX-RS (JSR 311)
standard. The project also introduces a client runtime which can leverage
certain components of the server-side runtime. Apache Wink will deliver
component technology that can be easily integrated into a variety of
environments.

Apache Wink has been incubating since 2009-05-27.

Notable Activity:

  * Luciano Resende and Raymond Feng elected as Wink committers
  * Luciano Resende elected as PMC member
  * Released Apache Wink 1.1.3.
  * The wink community has added a couple new binary Providers and bug
fixes.

Planned Activity:

  * JAX-RS 2.0 is starting up in the JCP.  May attempt to prototype/develop
against the next specification to provide an eventual JAX-RS 2.0 compliant
runtime.
  * Work towards graduation.

Top issues before graduation:

*

--------------------

Wookie

Wookie is a Java server application that allows you to upload and deploy
widgets for your applications. Wookie is based on the W3C Widgets
specification, but widgets can also be included that use extended APIs such
as Google Wave Gadgets and OpenSocial.

Wookie has been incubating since 17th July 2009

Since February 2011:
     * Release Candidate 0.9 put out for testing and feedback from
wookie-dev members
     * Feedback and issues for Release Candidate 0.9 posted to JIRA
         ** Almost all issues closed, new RC build imminent
     * Planned event for March took place
         ** Demonstrated how to make widgets for wookie, use of the APIs
         ** Promoted how to get more involved with Wookie, rather than
simply using it
         ** New participants at event posted issues/patches to JIRA for
first time
     * Various bug fixes and updates to main code branch
     * Community members working with Apache Rave (incubating) to explore
collaboration options
     * Community members exploring Apache Amber (incubating) for oAuth
support within wookie

Next steps:
     * Complete 0.9 build
     * Continue to work and liase with Apache Rave project
     * Continue exploration of using Apache Amber for oAuth support within
wookie

Issues before graduation:
     * complete first release
     * build community/expand user base


--------------------

Zeta Components

Apache Zeta Components are a high quality, general purpose library of loosly
coupled components for development of applications based on PHP.

What has been done:

- All INFRA tasks have been implemented
- Integrated two new committers
- Fixed bugs

What is still in progress

- Implementation of a build system in order to replace the current one
- Discussion about a roadmap for a release
- Discussing about how to do "marketing" and make the project more visible

What needs to be done:

- Fix more bugs
- Get a release


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache jUDDI Project

jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the
Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI v3)
specification for (Web) Services. The jUDDI project includes
Scout. Scout is an implementation of the JSR 93 - Java API for XML
Registries 1.0 (JAXR).

We are in the final stages of the 3.1 release. We will start a vote
for release on both Scout and JUDDI any day now. This release adds a
lot of functionality on the client side. No issues to report. The
project has seen an uptick in users since the becoming top level.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Apache Lenya is an Apache Cocoon based XML/XHTML content management system.

Issues:

  No board level issues at this time.

Development:

  2.0.4 was released March 14th. This may be the last release of the Java
  1.4 compatible version, although nothing official has been decided.
  Development of the Java 1.6 compatible 2.1.x branch is proceeding.

Community:

  No new committers.

Branding:

  Should be in full compliance with branding requirements.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

- Community

Development activity has been minimal.  Mailing lists
generally responsive to queries.

My personal involvement this quarter has been limited due to
a recently completed move.  I had hoped to be able to
at least show some progress in time for the board report.

No progress on developing an agenda and resolutions
for an project "annual meeting" to resolve recurring
issues, future project directions and explicitly
considering (and hopefully rejecting) moving to the Attic.


- Project Branding Requirements

No progress this quarter.  As previously reported,
the project and log4j logos on the project web site have been updated.
Documentation for the extras companion has been updated to conform
and the site will be updated once the release is accepted.
Other products will be updated during release pushes until
deadline is imminent.

The log4j logo uses uppercase letters while all other mentions
of log4j are lowercase.  The original vector art was not committed
at the same time as the image and altering or redrawing to use
lowercase letters would appear to be difficult.


- Development

log4j 1.2:

No commits this quarter.  A release push had been
anticipated and the first Duke Nukem reference has
been recorded.

There was a flurry of user discussion in mid-April
related to the known shortcomings of concurrency in log4j 1.2.
Unfortunately, there was no committer involvement and the
thread died out before this interest could be converted
into new code, new contributors or both.  Restarting this
discussion


log4j 2.0:

Three commits by one developer this quarter.
No significant discussion or community has yet developed.


log4cxx:

No commits this quarter.  As previously reported,
a log4cxx release that is compatible with Visual Studio 2010 and
that addresses a persistent problem with crashes on shutdown
(particularly with 64-bit systems) is long overdue.

log4net:

No commits this quarter.

log4php:

Multiple commits this quarter by one developer.

Chainsaw:

No commits this quarter.  After the development over the last year
or so, Chainsaw is due for a formal release which is dependent
on formal releases of a couple of log4j companions.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

No new mod_perl 1.x releases since the last report.

Discussions have started on an end-of-life for the 1.0 branch.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

No new mod_perl 2.x releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

No new Apache-Test releases since the last report

--- Apache-SizeLimit --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.  It is used to kill off large httpd child processes
based on various environmental triggers.

No new Apache-SizeLimit releases since the last report


--- Apache-Bootstrap --

Apache-Bootstrap is a framework to make it easier to build perl
module distributions for different mod_perl versions.  It encapsulates
code developed over the years by mod_perl developers to make
maintaining Apache::* and Apache2::* modules in the same distribution easy.

No new Apache-Bootstrap releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Reload --

Apache-Reload is a popular component in most mod_perl development
environments, used to refresh compiled code in the perl interpreter
without completely restarting httpd.

No new Apache-Reload releases since the last report.

-- Apache-DBI --

Apache-DBI is a popular component in many mod_perl deployments. It
is used to provide transparent database connection pooling to clients
using DBI.

No new Apache-DBI releases since the last report

-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be a healthy development community, though
as a mature and stable product development moves at a naturally
slower pace than in years past.  Bugs are found and discussed and
applied with due consideration for our production userbase.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.


-- PMC --

No noteworthy PMC events happened since the last report


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache POI Project

Apache POI is a Java library for reading and writing Microsoft office file
formats.

Community
---------
In the last quarter we have added one new committer/PMC member, Jon Svede.
There are a few other potential committers who have submitted a few
substantial OOXML related patches, who we are working with. Hopefully at
least one of them will be proposed for committership this quarter.

Traffic on the user list is steady this quarter, which is about 50% up on
this time last year. Dev list traffic is slightly up this quarter. The
number of reported issues is also up slightly, but we're getting through
quite a few of them, and patches are generally being applied in a fairly
timely manner.

Releases
--------
We've had two beta releases this quarter, 3.8 betas 1 and 2. We're aiming
for another beta release very soon, and likely 3.8 final this quarter. (Our
last stable release, 3.7, was released in October). We're also in the
process of moving to the new dist svnpubsub model (as used by httpd et al),
which we hope will make releasing simpler and quicker.

Branding
--------
We believe we've now completed all the steps on the project branding
checklist.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project

Apache Qpid is a cross-platform Enterprise Messaging system
which implements the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP),
providing message brokers written in C++ and Java, along with
clients for C++, Java JMS, .Net, Python, and Ruby.

Releases:
The project has just released the 0.10 release of the project, a
great release with a lot of improvements and features. Also the
first release done on the new 3 month release schedule from 0.8

Development:
One new committer has been voted onto the project, Justin Ross,
still awaiting account creation from root.

We have a newly contributed PHP client, have Java Hudson added
and a C++ CI during the last release cycle.

Community:
User list is as active as ever, if not increased a bit.

Issues:
None to report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache River Project

Below is the May board report for River

Apache River is a distributed computing architecture, based on the JSK
Starter Kit Source code donated by Sun Microsystems, for the Jini
Specification.

Releases:
First TLP release still hasn't been cut.  This was originally due to a
user-raised issue which never really got closed.  We're also still
waiting on some other work to be finished.

Progress:
Whilst dev@ is still quieter than a few months ago, discussions are
still happening.
We're also seeing some increased comments from users asking questions and
posting bug reports/raising JIRAs.  All questions on user@ are being
answered promptly.

Community:
In spite of the drop in message numbers on dev@, the community is still
strong.   Most recently some PMC members personally bid for (and won!)
the jini.net domain name which is currently in the process of being
transferred to ASF.
We've also started the proceedings to invite someone to become a River
committer and PMC member

Issues:
No board issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

Apache Roller: ASF Board Report for May 2011

* Status

The Roller community is still rather small and quiet, but we have made some
great progress recently in community and development and we have good news
to report.


* Community: new committer and GSOC project

Roller has a new committer. Shelan Perera has been helping out on the mailing
lists, submitting fixes and won a Google Summer of Code project to add mobile
blogging features to Roller. He was nominated and voted in on May 5, 2011.

   http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/proposal/review/google/gsoc2011/shelan/1

In other news, Oracle has decided to migrate all blogs.oracle.com, previously
running on Movable-Type, and blogs.sun.com to Apache Roller 4.0; a very nice
endorsement of Roller.

   http://blogs.oracle.com/otn/entry/the_blogs_rolling_on_with


* Releases: Roller 5.0

The Roller project has just made its first major release in over two years.
Roller 5.0, released on May 8 2011, includes work contributed by student
contributors from Google Summer of Code, students from San Jose State U,
Sun Microsystems and the usual cast of Roller committing characters. The
major new features are better file uploads and management, OpenID and
OAuth support. All dependencies have been upgraded to their latest
versions (as of January 2011).

   http://s.apache.org/roller5-vote-results
   http://s.apache.org/roller5-announcement


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project

The Apache Santuario project is aimed at providing implementation of security
standards for XML.

There were no new releases in the last quarter. A new release of the Java
library (1.4.5) is almost complete, and will be released shortly. The main
features of this release are a fix for a thread safety issue in the 1.4.4
release, as well as a fix for a regression that was introduced in the
Canonical XML 1.1 algorithm.

Work on a new major Java release (1.5) is proceeding at a steady pace. It is
anticipated that this release will happen in the next quarter, or possibly the
quarter after that. Several bugs have been fixed in the C++ library in the
last quarter.

On a project level note, we have had some discussion with the Santuario
Genxdm project, which is hosted on Apache Extras. This project is a port of
Apache Santuario (for Java), where the DOM API is replaced by an abstraction
called Genxdm, which allows for different underlying implementations to be
plugged in (such as Apache Axiom).

The Santuario Genxdm folk expressed an interest in potentially merging the
codebase with Apache Santuario some time in the future, if Genxdm is adopted
as an Apache project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Subversion Project

No Board-level issues at this time.

We released 1.6.16 on March 3rd, 2011, and are preparing the 1.6.17
release for early next week. Both releases contain the standard mix of
bug fixes, along with some security fixes (unfortunately). The PMC has
worked with the Apache Security Team to acquire CVEs, discuss
notification, and other issues.

Many of the Subversion developers are in Berlin this week (the week of
May 16). One of the main issues of discussion is the branching for the
1.7 release. We've hit our performance targets and are wrapping up the
last dozen bugs. Most feel good about (finally!) branching by the end
of the month, in preparation for early releases before our final 1.7.0
release. We are going to have early release series to get feedback,
and also to iron out any issues with releasing from apache.org (the
1.6 releases continue from tigris.org since they do not use the ALv2
license).

In our last report, we discussed the problems with WANdisco and its
problems with our marks. Since that report, WANdisco has made progress
and will be phasing out its older, infringing products in favor of a
new product named uberSVN. We continue to monitor the situation and
will be turning our focus to other actors in the Subversion space.

No new PMC members or committers have been added in this period (last
PMC appointment was in January 2011, and last committers were November
and July 2010).

Greg has entered into a private agreement with WANdisco for some work
on Subversion. The agreement has been structured to avoid imposition
on his duties at the Foundation, and the PMC has not raised any flags.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Turbine Project

Apache Turbine Project Board Report, May 2011

Status

The Turbine project has as usual seen low levels of activity in the last
quarter.  The Turbine project has no board-level issues at this time.

Project Branding Board Report Checklist

- RESOLVED: Project Naming And Descriptions : use proper Apache forms, 
    describe product, etc.
- RESOLVED: Website Navigation Links : navbar links included, link to 
    www.apache.org included
- RESOLVED: Trademark Attributions : attribution for all ASF marks included 
    in footers, etc.
- TODO: Logos and Graphics : include TM, use consistent product logo on 
    your site
- RESOLVED: Project Metadata : DOAP file checkedin and up to date

Community changes

No new committers were voted in since the last board report.
No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.

Turbine core project

The Turbine core project strives to reach a milestone release of version 4.0
Release candidates for the milestone release are being prepared and tested. 
A vote to release RC2 is under way. No beta or final releases were made since
the last board report.

Fulcrum component project

Work on migrating the build process of the Fulcrum components to Maven 2 
continues. No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

META project

There has been no activity on the META sub-project in this quarter.
No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Tuscany Project

Apache Tuscany is an SOA framework based on OASIS OpenCSA and SCA.

Relatively busy this quarter with a lot of discussion about GSoC
projects and getting ready for the 2.0 release.

There have been two releases this quarter, a 1.6.2 maintenance
release, and a 2.0-Beta2 from the new 2.x code stream.

There was one new PMC member made, no new committers.

Tuscany has five students working on GSoC projects this year and they
are getting started now, one has already been active and from that
been given access to update the website and commit access to the
sandbox area.

There are no board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

Status
 * Development discussion, but no commits.  Low activity on mailing lists.

Community
 * No changes.

Releases
 * None


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

We are fortunate again to have students for GSoC. Thiwanka Somasiri
and Ishara Karunarathna will be participating in GSoC this year to
implement xml:id support and some remaining features for DOM Level 3
Load and Save (asynchronous LSParser / parseWithContext()).

The committers continue to work on improving the schema validator's
conformance to the XML Schema 1.1 specification.

Mailing list traffic has been moderate; about 200+ posts on the
j-dev and j-users lists since the beginning of February.

No new releases this quarter.

Xerces-C

A defect was fixed in the 2.x and 3.x streams for a stack overflow
which could occur in DTD processing. Development on the project has
otherwise been quiet.

Mailing list traffic has been moderate; about 100+ posts on the
c-dev and c-users lists since the beginning of February.

No new releases this quarter.

Xerces-P

There was no development activity over the reporting period. One
question was asked on the p-dev mailing list that got answered by
Jason, so apparently he's still lurking around.

XML Commons

We are continuing to migrate XML Commons over to xerces.apache.org.
The download area has been moved from
http://www.apache.org/dist/xml/commons to
http://www.apache.org/dist/xerces/xml-commons. The website and SVN
location are the only remaining items to be moved over from the XML
project.

No development activity to report.

Apache Project Branding Requirements

Trademark attributions have been added to the footer of pages on
the TLP website. Thanks to the Apache Forrest developers for making
this easier to do with their 0.9 release. There's still some work
left to do on the TLP website, including adding TM to the project
logo.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache XML Project

No issues requiring board attention, other than the fact there are no
issues and no activity at all in the XML project. It's probably time
we ask (what's left of) the XIndice community what they want to do
with their project, and move the XML umbrella to the Attic. Will try
and find cycles before the next report to make it happen and/or find
closure.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments
================

There are no issues that require Board attention.

XML Graphics Commons
====================

Developer activity has been confined to a few fixes.

Batik
=====

Developer activity has been low. Questions on the user list are mostly
getting answers. Gump build failures have been resolved by adding XGC as a
dependency for Batik (and thereby reducing code redundancy between the two
subprojects).

Fop
===

Developer activity has been rather high. Nevertheless, the active committers
are not able to handle all incoming patches. Peter Hancock has joined as a
committer. A number of committers have been listed as inactive, both for Fop
and XML Graphics Commons.

In March there has been a heated debate between the PMC and a contributor
about committership. Regrettably, no agreement could be reached, and a
resolution has been deferred to a later date.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Special report to the Board on Apache Lucene

Background: Lucene has been asked by the Board to report on the state
of the community vis-a-vis the problems around the recent
commit/revert incident
(https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SOLR-2272 and the related
Lucene issue as well as several other mail threads)

The primary root of these problems arose from a disagreement about how
best to move forward with the two products the Lucene PMC ships:
Apache Lucene and Apache Solr.  A majority of the PMC/committership is
in favor of a more modular approach to Solr which essentially means
refactoring code that has lived in Solr for a long time into modules
that can be more easily consumed at the Java API level (as opposed to
the Solr REST API level.)  Others have resisted these changes,
sometimes for technical reasons and sometimes for what appear to be
business/political reasons.  Still others have a view that they should
be taken on a case by case basis.  These people are not against the
refactoring, but don't think is absolutely necessary that it must be
done in order to make other contributions to that particular code
base.  After long debate, we seem to have arrived at a consensus that
those who wish to do the refactoring should go ahead with it, but it
shouldn't require others to stop working in the areas that are of
refactoring interest.  For the record, the business/political
reasoning has been clearly repudiated by the rest of the PMC.

Other concerns have arisen about the use of IRC such that we have
started to use a logging client for IRC.  We have also reminded
everyone to keep all decisions on list and to allow proposed decisions
to "bake" before committing, at least when it comes to major issues/changes.

Some in the community have also raised concerns about Lucid
Imagination's role in development.  While Lucid does employ a good
number (but nowhere near the majority) of committers [1], (and which
is almost completely balanced by IBM's presence) the general consensus
seems to be that it is not a concern.  Furthermore, during the recent
debates, it is quite clear that Lucid employees are free to have
independent viewpoints on what to do.  Naturally, given a number of
committers in one company, it warrants the PMC keeping a watchful eye on
it.  Likewise, however, it should also be clear that every
PMC/committer involved in Lucene (with the exception of Andi Vajda) is
paid to work on Lucene/Solr and they all have financial interests and
are often in competition for the same clients.
All should recognize that this doesn't necessarily make for problems,
but can do so if people let it.

Beyond this, we have put forth a few other things that we can do to
help keep the community moving forward in a positive way.  These are
itemized below:

1. Obviously, with projects as big and widely used as Lucene and Solr,
it is hard to sometimes keep up with all the contributions that come
in.  Thus, we need to find a way to automate (similar to Hadoop's
patch checker) the basics of patch checking like having unit tests,
formatting, etc. such that contributors can get feedback sooner and so
that committers know that a patch is ready for review, thereby making
it easier to accept contributions and, hopefully, encourage newcomers.
We also need to more consistently promote contributors to committers
and committers to the PMC.  As with most of the ASF, our current
approach is dependent on remembering to make a nomination and we
should look for better ways to identify candidates (such a reporting
mechanism would likely benefit all the ASF, actually.)

2. We have added three new PMC Members: Doron Cohen, Shai Erera, Steve
Rowe

3. The Board should expect a resolution to change
the PMC Chair for the June Board Meeting.  We also plan on changing
the chair on a yearly basis.

4. Thanks to Greg's intervention, we all have been reminded as to
proper etiquette when it comes to commits/reverts such that the main
symptom of this disagreement should not happen again.

5. To some extent, we feel this has been overblown and many of us have
come to the conclusion that the simplest way to move forward is to get
back to writing code and improving Lucene and Solr and getting
releases out.  This is not intended to paper over the concerns, but
to note that the whole point of the project is to deliver open source
search software via the ASF guidelines.  To that end, we are working on
releasing 3.2 of Lucene
and Solr as well as continuing development on 4.0.

[1] Current PMC Members/Committers and their employers

* means PMC
      Bill Au (billa@...)   -- CBS Interactive
    * Michael Busch (buschmi@...) -- Twitter
    * Doron Cohen (doronc@...) -- IBM
    * Shai Erera (shaie@...) -- IBM
    * Otis Gospodnetic (otis@...) -- Sematext
    * Erik Hatcher (ehatcher@...) -- Lucid
    * Chris Hostetter (hossman@...) -- Lucid
    * Grant Ingersoll (gsingers@...) -- Lucid
    * Mike McCandless (mikemccand@...) -- IBM
    * Ryan McKinley (ryan@...) -- Voyager GIS (Lucid advisor)
    * Mark Miller (markrmiller@...) -- Lucid
    * Robert Muir (rmuir@...) -- Lucid (recent)
      Noble Paul (noble@...) -- AOL
    * Steven Rowe (sarowe@...) -- Syracuse Univ.
    * Uwe Schindler (uschindler@...) -- SD Data Solutions
      Shalin Shekhar Mangar (shalin@...) -- AOL
    * Yonik Seeley (yonik@...) -- Lucid
    * Koji Sekiguchi (koji@...) -- Rondhuit
      Dawid Weiss (dweiss@...) -- CarrotSearch
      Stanislaw Osinski -- CarrotSearch
    * Simon Willnauer (simonw@...) -- JTeam/Independent
      Chris Male (chrism@...) -- JTeam
      Andi Vajda (vajda@...) -- Google
    * Scott Ganyo -- Actor
    * Mark Harwood -- Detica
      Adriano Crestani -- IBM

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the May 19, 2011 board meeting.

