                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            February 16, 2011


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at 10:02
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding joined at 10:34
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Sam Ruby

    Directors Absent:

        Noirin Shirley
        Greg Stein

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci joined at 10:15
        Craig L Russell

    Guests:

        Brian Fox
        Brett Porter

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of 2010-12-15

       Approved by general consent.

    B. The meeting of 2011-01-19

       Approved by general consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Doug]

       I met with Mike Milinkovich, Executive Director of the Eclipse
       Foundation.  We had a wide-ranging, friendly discussion of our
       commonalities and differences.  Our trademark policies are very
       similar while our licenses and governance have some fundamental
       differences.

    B. President [Jim]

       Foundation-wise a relatively quiet month. For some reason, it seems
       that our annual CSC bill got lost and we rec'd a bill from a
       collection agency which was quickly paid. I'll take the initiative
       to have our EA create a foundation calendar.

       Speaking of our EA, I've been working hard to get Melissa in touch
       and working with various ASF "consumers". Currently, the main focus
       has been in working with Sally regarding such issues as the ASF
       Annual Report, coordinating Concom marketing/PR with Charel, etc...
       My intent is to push more work in helping Geir and TAC.

       Despite good work being done regarding trademarks, I do have some
       personal concerns regarding how this will play out. In particular, I
       tend to gauge how closely PMCs feel "connected" to the ASF by how
       much they worry about protecting Apache marks. In other words, if the
       PMCs feel that it is important to make sure that external agencies
       know that those projects are *ASF* projects, I feel that they value
       their association with the ASF. Maybe that is an unfair
       characterization, but there it is.

       The scheduled lunch with Wayne from Sonatype was postponed due to an
       appointment conflict. We will reschedule asap. Hopefully, the Maven
       trademark issue is making some headway; from what I can see, Brett is
       doing an excellent job distilling main ideas and concepts down to
       poll-able and vote-able topics.
       
       I talked w/ Sally regarding renewal of the HALO contract. We agreed
       that an extension to the existing contract to bring us to the end of
       the fiscal year was the way to go. A new contract will be negotiated
       at that point.
       
       I am gearing up for our budgeting process.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are up to date.   Current balances are total cash of 
      $634,042.35 at Wells Fargo and $36,398.30 at Paypal.

      In terms of lockbox, we received :

       contribution checks  :

         - LexisNexis
         - BiblioLabs LLC
         - CafePress
         - JustGive.org
         - NetworkForGood
         - OpenLogic

      Tasks Done:
        - fundraising support (invoices)
        - all bills paid
        - backpay for EA
        - recurring payments to EA

      In Progress:
        - ASF monthly expense data
        - find the $20 discrepancy in checking

   Statement of Financial Income and Expense - January 2011

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                            85.07
              Program Income
                Conference                                     12,349.21
              Total Program Income                                   12,349.21

              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                  101,381.85
              Total Contributions Income                            101,381.85

           Total Income                                             113,816.13

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                      342.82
              Licenses and Permits                                       55.00
              Postage and Delivery                                       19.95
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                     518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                   37,656.42
                   Infrastructure Staff                  6,500.00
                Total Infrastructure                           44,674.42

                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                            1,586.48
                Total Public Relations                          1,586.48

              Total Program Expenses                                 46,260.90

              Travel & Ent                                             -524.18
           Total Expense                                             46,154.49

        Net Ordinary Income                                          67,661.64

     Net Income                                                      67,661.64


   Statement of Financial Position - As of January 31, 2011

                                                    Jan 31, 11    Jan 31, 10     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Other Expenses                              587.38        140.34        447.04        318.5%
             Other Income                             -4,464.12       -409.90     -4,054.22       -989.1%
             Paypal                                   30,159.58     16,710.16     13,449.42         80.5%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            348,926.66    224,608.53    124,318.13         55.4%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     286,201.97    285,062.19      1,139.78          0.4%
           Total Checking/Savings                    661,411.47    526,111.32    135,300.15         25.7%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                     150,600.00     90,000.00     60,600.00         67.3%
           Total Accounts Receivable                 150,600.00     90,000.00     60,600.00         67.3%

        Total Current Assets                         812,011.47    616,111.32    195,900.15         31.8%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    812,011.47    616,111.32    195,900.15         31.8%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Phil Golucci             0.00      1,971.79     -1,971.79       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                    94.90         39.90         55.00        137.8%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz             -50.00          0.00        -50.00       -100.0%
             Total Credit Cards                           44.90      2,011.69     -1,966.79        -97.8%

           Total Current Liabilities                      44.90      2,011.69     -1,966.79        -97.8%

        Total Liabilities                                 44.90      2,011.69     -1,966.79        -97.8%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         626,337.08    363,648.74    262,688.34         72.2%
           Net Income                                185,629.49    250,450.89    -64,821.40        -25.9%
        Total Equity                                 811,966.57    614,099.63    197,866.94         32.2%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      812,011.47    616,111.32    195,900.15         31.8%



    D. Secretary [Craig]

       Processing of documents continues to be smooth. Documents arrive
       on a regular basis and are dispatched generally within a day of
       arrival. January saw 44 ICLAs, 2 CCLAs, one NDA, and a raft of
       membership applications.

       Shane noted that all elected members have responded to their
       invitations. Is an announcement planned?

       Action item: Jim arrange for a public announcement.

    E. Executive Vice President [Noirin]
       
       Quiet month. Spoke at linux.conf.au about the community dev work
       at Apache, and attended KiwiFoo. Invited to speak about the ASF at 
       Open Source Days in Copenhagen next month.

    F. Vice Chairman [Greg]

       As usual... all quiet, which I interpret as Goodness.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Shane]

       See Attachment 3

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Jim]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Roy]

       See Attachment 7

       No report was received.

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley]

       See Attachment 8

       No report was received.

       Action item: Jim is everything ok?

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Jim]

       See Attachment 9

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Geir]

       See Attachment 10

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Ant Elder / Bertrand]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Sam]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Aries Project [Jeremy Hughes / Doug]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache Buildr Project [Alex Boisvert / Greg]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache C++ Standard Library Project [Martin Sebor / Noirin]

       See Attachment E

       The project looks like it's not able to manage itself as an
       Apache project. No releases, no patches being reviewed, no
       assistance to prospective committers in the community.

       Action item: Doug follow up with the project.

    F. Apache Cassandra Project [Jonathan Ellis / Sam]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Click Project [Malcolm Edgar / Roy]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Cocoon Project [Vadim Gritsenko / Doug]

       See Attachment H

       Branding may be an issue, since it appears that the site has not
       been updated since 2009.

       Action item: Shane follow up.

    I. Apache Community Development Project [Ross Gardler / Noirin]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Continuum Project [Emmanuel Venisse / Jim]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache CouchDB Project [Damien Katz / Geir]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache ESME Project [Richard Hirsch / Bertrand]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Shane]

       See Attachment M

       Shane: congrats to Forrest and especially David for the release!

    N. Apache HTTP Server Project [William A. Rowe Jr. / Greg]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache HttpComponents Project [Asankha Perera / Bertrand]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Doug]

       See Attachment P

       Concerns about HISE's commercial deployments.

       Action item: Shane follow up with the HISE PPMC.

       Comment about Deltacloud: would like to hear about the community.

       Comment on Droids: good news!

    Q. Apache jUDDI Project [Kurt Stam / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Lenya Project [Richard Frovarp / Noirin]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Jim]

       See Attachment S

    T. Apache Maven Project [Brian Fox / Roy]

       See Attachment T

       The branding issue with Sonatype is still unresolved after several
       discussions among several ASF members and Sonatype folks. The PMC
       needs to formally request that Sonatype respect the Apache Maven brand
       and otherwise comply with the published trademark policy.

       Action item: Shane draft a formal letter for the PMC to approve.

    U. Apache OODT Project [Chris A. Mattmann / Greg]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Perl Project [Philippe M. Chiasson / Shane]

       See Attachment V

       Noirin: Three cheers for Fred!

       Since httpd 1.3.x has been officially retired it's probably time
       to do the same with mod_perl 1.x.

       Action item Philip: follow up on dev@

    W. Apache POI Project [Nick Burch / Geir]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Doug]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache River Project [Tom Hobbs / Shane]

       See Attachment Y

       Geir: I'm really happy to see River continuing to move 
       forward.  It's been a long road.

    Z. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Greg]

       See Attachment Z

       Greg: 1. Generally, Board reports should directly include
               information rather than have external references
               (eg. the new features reference). the minutes need to
               be independent of any/all future changes to external
               content.
           2. You list EE servers, but not Geronimo?
           3. Are these new contributors becoming committers and/or
               joining the PMC? We've been seeing issues with projects
               not recruiting enough for continuity.

       Action item: Greg follow up with Dave to improve future reports.

    AA. Apache Santuario Project [Colm O hEigeartaigh / Sam]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Subversion Project [Greg Stein / Roy]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Turbine Project [Thomas Vandahl / Noirin]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Tuscany Project [Ant Elder / Jim]

       See Attachment AD

    AE. Apache Velocity Project [Nathan Bubna / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Geir]

       See Attachment AF

       Greg: Sounds like some great community progress!

    AG. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Greg]

       See Attachment AG

       No report was submitted this month (and last time as well).

       Action item: Sam prepare the box for storage in the Attic.

    AH. Apache Xerces Project [Michael Glavassevich / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AH

    AI. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Jim]

       See Attachment AI

       No report was submitted this month (and last time as well).

       Action item: Jim prepare the box for storage in the Attic.

    AJ. Apache XML Graphics Project [Simon Pepping / Geir]

       See Attachment AJ

    AK. Apache ZooKeeper Project [Patrick Hunt / Sam]

       See Attachment AK

    All officers' reports and received committee reports were approved
    by general consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Update Legal Affairs Committee Membership

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee of The Apache Software
       Foundation (ASF) expects to better serve its purpose through the
       periodic update of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee is an Executive Committee
       whose membership must be approved by Board resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following contributor be
       added as a Legal Affairs Committee member:

          Jennifer O'Neill

       This resolution was approved unanimously by roll call vote.

    B. Establish the Apache Chemistry project
    
	WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
	of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
	establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation and
	maintenance of open-source software providing an implementation of the
	OASIS CMIS (Content Management Interoperability Services)
	specifications, in server and client form, for distribution at no
	charge to the public;
	
	NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management Committee
	(PMC), to be known as the "Apache Chemistry Project", be and hereby is
	established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further
	
	RESOLVED, that the Apache Chemistry Project be and hereby is
	responsible for the creation and maintenance of software providing and
	implementing the OASIS CMIS (Content Management Interoperability
	Services) specifications, in server and client form, for distribution
	at no charge to the public.
	
	RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Chemistry" be and hereby
	is created, the person holding such office to serve at the direction
	of the Board of Directors as the chair of the Apache Chemistry
	Project, and to have primary responsibility for management of the
	projects within the scope of responsibility of the Apache Chemistry
	Project; and be it further
	
	RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
	appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache Chemistry
	Project:
	
	* Bogdan Stefanescu     (bs@apache.org)
	* David Caruana         (dcaruana@apache.org)
	* David Nuescheler      (uncled@apache.org)
	* David Ward            (dward@apache.org)
	* Dominique Pfister     (dpfister@apache.org)
	* Florent Guillaume     (fguillaume@apache.org)
	* Florian Müller        (fmui@apache.org)
	* Gabriele Columbro     (gabriele@apache.org)
	* Jeff Potts            (jpotts@apache.org)
	* Jens Hübel            (jens@apache.org)
	* Jukka Zitting         (jukka@apache.org)
	* Martin Hermes         (hermesm@apache.org)
	* Nick Burch            (nick@apache.org)
	* Paolo Mottadelli      (paolo@apache.org)
	* Paul Goetz            (pgoetz@apache.org)
	* Richard McKnight      (richardm@apache.org)
	* Stéfane Fermigier     (sfermigier@apache.org)
	* Stephan Klevenz       (sklevenz@apache.org)
	* Stéphane Lacoin       (slacoin@apache.org)
	* Sun Seng David Tan    (stan@apache.org)
	
	NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Florian Müller be
	appointed to the office of Vice President, Chemistry, to serve in
	accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors
	and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement,
	removal or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be
	it further
	
	RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Chemistry Project be and hereby is
	tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage open
	development and increased participation in the Chemistry Project; and
	be it further
	
	RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Chemistry Project be and hereby is
	tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache Incubator
	Chemistry podling; and be it further
	
	RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache Incubator
	Chemistry podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator PMC are
	hereafter discharged.

       This resolution was approved unanimously by roll call vote.

    C. Change the Apache Pivot Project Chair

	WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Greg Brown to the
	office of Vice President, Apache Pivot, and

	WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
	Greg Brown from the office of Vice President, Apache Pivot, and

	WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Pivot project
	has chosen to recommend Todd Volkert as the successor to the post;

	NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Greg Brown is relieved and
	discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of Vice
	President, Apache Pivot, and

	BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Todd Volkert be and hereby is appointed
	to the office of Vice President, Apache Pivot, to serve in accordance
	with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors and the
	Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal
	or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.
 
       This resolution was approved unanimously by roll call vote.

 8. Discussion Items

     A. Define organizational ownership of trademark policy.

     It appears we are getting closer to consensus that the VP, Trademarks
     is responsible for setting policy and the PMC's are responsible for
     implementing said policy. Some details remain to be discussed.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Doug/Philip: Initiate a discussion as to what items the board should
              periodically request be included in reports (example: diversity)
              to the mailing list. (Original context: JackRabbit)
              Infrastructure section
              Status: Shane added a page:
                 http://www.apache.org/foundation/board/reporting.html

    * Noirin: follow up with Edd Dumbill re Apache track at OSCON
              Status: In progress - Edd was positive, but still working on 
                      follow-through/concrete next steps.
              As of now, there is no "Apache" track published for OSCON 2011.

    * Sam: find out what's going on with Bluesky
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: discuss release policy with Lab folks
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: follow up with Synapse re no releases since 2008
              Status: Not started.

    * Jim: Contact Sonatype CEO to try to resolve Maven branding issue.
           Complete. Status as discussed.

    * Jim: Facilitate the purchase of AMD box.
           Status: Now part of infra budget and sched. Can close.

    * Greg: follow up with HBase to clarify the "developer release" term.

    * Doug: Suggest to Noel that JSPWiki needs a nudge.

    * Greg: Find out whether Shindig can use internal Hudson.

    * Jim: Work on the mid-year budget update.
        Status: Done. Looks like most budget areas are on track.

    New Action Items:

    * Jim: work with EA on a calendar (e.g. due dates for external reports)
    * Jim: arrange for a public announcement of new members
    * Jim: follow up with conference planning committee on missing report
    * Doug: follow up with Stdcxx project
    * Shane: follow up with Cocoon branding
    * Shane: follow up with HISE on commercial deployments
    * Shane: follow up with Maven letter for PMC review
    * Philip: retire mod_perl 1.x
    * Greg: follow up with Roller PMC chair to improve report
    * Sam: move xalan to attic
    * Jim: move xml project to attic

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 11:11am Pacific.

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Oracle as nominated "SouJava", the massive Brazilian Java User's Group, to
a seat on the JCP Executive Commitee.  Some phrase it as "Apache's seat".

I've offered to be a rep for SouJava :)

Other than that, things are quiet - the transition out of the JCP has caused
no major problems for our communities (that I can tell).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

One board-level issue: Discussion item 8.A: trademark policy ownership.

Operations And Community
========================

Drafted Third Party Domain Names policy [1], based on trademarks@ discussion 
and the existing Event branding policy; I expect a forthcoming Third Party 
Services policy to be similar.  An expanded "Rationale" or ethos behind our 
branding policy is likely to grow into a larger "Why our trademarks 
are important" document which should help third parties much more quickly 
explore uses of our marks that are acceptable. 

Began to use legal-discuss@ to request broader legal suggestions for specific 
kinds of brand policy questions.  It is still difficult to get a large amount 
of feedback (either there or on trademarks@) for new policy ideas.

Projects continue to report status on implementing Branding Requirements.

Continued a number of discussions including private@maven relating to 
trademarks and especially use of "MVN" as a separate mark than "Maven", as 
well as clarified guidelines that plugin names may use different standards
than full software product names.   Many thanks to Brian and Brett for 
organizing many of the threads there.

External Requests
=================

Awaiting feedback from Jim on a meeting with the Sonatype CEO to determine 
next steps to address Sonatype's use of our Maven mark in various cases. 

Contacted a number of third parties about uses of Apache marks, including use 
in certified training classes, which is a new category of use.

Greg as VP, Subversion contacted WANdisco on their use of our registered 
Subversion mark, with specific remediations requested.  I'm looking forward to 
seeing how effective and timely Subversion's approach is, since the original 
email was very well written.

Yahoo!, Cloudera, and IBM have all confirmed that they plan to change the 
branding of their respective "...Hadoop" products to conform to our policy.

[1] http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/domains.html


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

There is not a lot of public activity this report with several pending and 
renewals that I hope I can announce in next month's report.

WANDisco is now a bronze sponsor.

Helped push forward some trademark clarifications from Cloudera.

I still need to reach out to the fundraising list as indicated in last
month's report to get contacts with some bronze sponsors who are due to 
renew.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

ASF MARKETING & PUBLICITY STATUS: JANUARY 2011

I. Budget: Sally Khudairi reviewed the mid-year expenditures
to date with President Jim Jagielski. We will be purchasing
another 10-pack of pre-paid press releases at the non-profit
rate, and have secured a flat rate of $450 per additional
US-issued press release thereafter, and a 10% discount on
any European distributions.


II. Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: Sally acted as
advocate to ConCom on behalf of a Sponsor seeking to organize
a conference based on an Apache project, met with a Brozne-level
Sponsor regarding marketing opportunities, and is coordinating
announcing a new Platinum Sponsor. She is also in communication
with the Trademarks/Branding team regarding terms of use of a
ASF projects/logos in third party properties, such as support
Websites.


III. Press Releases: we issued the following press releases over
the PR NewsWire service:

- 14 February - Apache Innovation Bolsters IBM's "Smartest Machine
on Earth" in First-ever Man vs. Machine Competition on Jeopardy!
Quiz Show
- 19 January - The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache
Pivot 2.0

IV. Informal Announcements: none during this timeperiod, other than
tweets on Pivot 2.0, new sponsors WANdisco, and a new Feathercast
on Apache Commons.

Our highlighting innovative uses of Apache products in the "Did You
Know?" Twitter campaign is ongoing. Please forward success stories
to Sally at press@.


V. Media Relations: we've been responding to various media queries
on Cloud-related technologies as well as "big data" initiatives.
Jim Jagielski, Dan Crichton, and Chris Mattmann are participating
in interviews for a feature on Apache OODT in NASA Spinoff magazine.
A technical glitch caused the new schedule for the "Apache Asserts"
blog on ComputerWorld UK to clear itself, disallowing bloggers
from signing up; Sally will try to set up the new schedule within
the week.


VI. Analyst Relations: no active outreach during this time period.


VII. ApacheCon liaison: Sally developed a strategic plan for marketing
and publicizing the 2011/Vancouver conference, and will be meeting on
Monday with the firms contracted to perform the tactical work. The
master calendar needs to be adjusted due to delays in setting up the
backend of the online CFP system. The Website framework and copydeck
are almost complete, with plans to open both the CFP and launch the
Website by the end of the month. Sally plans to resume activity with
 the overall Planners team by the end of the month (full assignments
 for the Planning team are not yet in place).


VIII. (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison:

- 23-24 March: Jim will be speaking at POSSCON in Columbia, South
Carolina.
- 25-29 July: we'll likely be at OSCON again; Sally is meeting with
the conference chair this week to explore opportunities.


IX. PR Newswire account: we have 3 remaining pre-paid, flat-rate press
releases available through 30 April 2011. We will be purchasing an
additional pre-paid set of 10 at a deeply-discounted, non-profit rate
to allow future announcements without interruption.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

Henry Story is now participating on behalf of the ASF on the WebID Incubator
Group.  Henry is the Chair of this W3C incubator group.  Apache Incubator
Clerezza implements WebID.

Andy Seaborne is now participating on behalf of the ASF on the RDF and SPARQL
Working Groups.  Andy is an editor of SPARQL.  Apache Incubator Jena
implements both specifications.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

Another exceedingly quiet month.  No issues for the board.  Primary
activities:

* Larry continues to shepherd the Amicus Brief in Microsoft vs i4i.  Karen
  Sandler also participated.

* Legal review and approval of the efforts to resolve the Subversion/WANdisco
  trademark issues.

* We decided to invite Jennifer O'Neill to participate in the Legal Affairs
  committee.  See resolution 7A in the agenda.

* General support in response to requests from the VP, Brand Management.

* Exploration of Jenkins coming to the ASF.  Feedback was universally
  positive.  It will be up to the developers of Jenkins to decide whether or
  not they wish to pursue this.

* Fielded miscellaneous questions, such as BSD license usage by podlings and
  the conditions under which a project may move externally.  


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Renewed service contract with Dell for 1 year regarding baldr
and our 2 PowerVault arrays.

Received a VAT invoice for ~ 900 EU for the array we recently
shipped to SARA.  Awaiting a wire from the treasurer for payment.

Specced a pair of D53J JBODs from Silicon Mechanics.  Awaiting
a wire from the treasurer for payment.

Started discussing next year's budget.

We now have a 3rd rack to use courtesy of OSUOSL.

Reworked the asf-do.pl script to overcome issues with opie.

Shut down the portals zone for security issues.

Deployed ckl- "CloudKick logging tool" to all our FreeBSD hosts.
See http://www.apache.org/dev/ckl.html for details.

NERO, our network provider at OSUOSL, discovered an open HTTP proxy
on one of our hosts.  Upon further investigation we closed several
other outstanding security issues and removed root access from those
responsible for the poor setup.

Paul Davis continued his work on git hosting, setting up a mailer for
testing.

Daniel Shahaf was promoted to root@ for his outstanding work in several
areas.

Upgraded Jira to 4.2.x and added GreenHopper (supports agile
development) for all projects. We're also eating our own (fresher) dog
food since Jira now runs on the latest Tomcat 7 release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

No changes to membership since last report.

Unless any objections arise soon from current TAC members, the 
Knocktree event will be supported by TAC and we will start rolling 
out the advertising of our part this month.

We still have the budget to get sorted, both creating a future one and 
aligning the previous one. As offered, we will see about utilising 
the EA very soon.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

Apache Abdera provides Java implementations of the IETF Atom
Syndication Format and Publishing Protocol specifications.

Abdera continues with a fairly quiet low level of activity. There is
not much new development but bug fixing and related enhancements
continue, the user list has a small steady stream of user posts, often
which get answered by other users and/or fixed by developers. There
have been two releases this quarter, 1.1.1, and 1.1.2, no new
committers or PMC members.

There are no board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

Ant Status Report - Feb 2011.

o Release Status

Core
---------
Ant 1.8.2 was released on Dec 27th, 2010.

This was mostly a bugfix release but it is worth noting that this
release abandons the distinction between core and optional tasks.

Ivy
-------
Ivy 2.2.0 was released on October 7, 2010 and remains the current release

Ivy-DE 2.1.0 was released on Aug 20, 2010 and remains the current release

Antlibs
----------

Version 1.1 of the .NET Antlib was voted on for release.

o Code Donations

The Ant project is sponsoring the EasyAnt project through the Apache
incubator. The project entered the incubator on Feb 1st.

http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/EasyAntProposal

o Community

No issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Aries Project


Aries delivers a set of pluggable Java components enabling an enterprise
OSGi application programming model.

Aries 0.3 has now been released. Aries Application 0.2.1 is being
released to assist Geronimo. This is the first time Aries has released
a single module.

Now that the first full Aries release since graduation has happened,
and that there is a desire to consider OSGi semantic versioning
guidelines we are discussing whether releasing at a finer grained level
is more appropriate. There is much good discussion about what makes
sense for Aries, with input from what happens in Felix, Sling and ACE.

Community update: largely unchanged since last month dev@ 117
subscribers, user@ 127 subscribers. The dev@ list continues to be
active with less traffic on the user@ list. No new committers or PMC
members since the January report.

There are no board level issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Buildr Project

The project released Buildr 1.4.4 in mid-November in response to a blocking
issue that appeared after installing Java Update 3 on Mac OS X.

Beyond that, the last 3 months have been relatively quiet on the mailing list
and in terms of development. Nonetheless, our changelog shows about 30 minor
fixes/changes/enhancements and we're planning to release version 1.4.5 in the
near future.

There are two outstanding contributions sitting in Jira
(https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/BUILDR-259,
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/BUILDR-486) that most likely won't make
it into our next release due to lack of committer time to integrate them.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache C++ Standard Library Project

Notable changes since previous report (November 2010):

  Stdcxx continues to be dormant. All but one committer have moved on
  to other projects. The only remaining committer (the VP of the
  project) is too busy with his day job to make even small changes,
  or to put out the long-awaited patch release, stdcxx 4.2.2.

  A number of users and organizations have been using the project
  and expressed interest in contributing to it. Several submitted
  patches, others have offered help with the project build and test
  infrastructure. Unfortunately, since no committer is available to
  review patches and guide the contributors through the ASF process
  to enable them to gain commit privileges there seems to be little
  hope of reviving stdcxx.

  A possible solution that would allow contributions to resume is
  to grant commit privileges to the handful of contributors who have
  already submitted some patches or expressed serious interest in
  contributing going forward.

  Another alternative is to move stdcxx to a repository outside
  of ASF such as SPI (http://www.spi-inc.org/) where interested
  developers could start committing changes on their own right away,
  without going through the "training" process. This seems to the
  preferred solution among at least some of the interested users.

  Are there any other options?

Future plans:

  Unless the issue with contributions can be resolved in the next
  quarter I suggest to retire the project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Cassandra Project

Cassandra is a distributed database combining the best of Google's
Bigtable and Amazon's Dynamo.

--Highlights--

Several Cassandra deployments have gotten positive press recently,
including Netflix, Openwave, and Twitter's Rainbird.

0.7.0 was released with many new features, including index
queries against column values.

--Releases--

0.6.9, 0.6.10, 0.6.11, 0.7.0

--Community--

Added Jake Luciani as committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Click Project

Apache Click is an easy-to-use page and component oriented Java web framework.
There are no board level issues at this time.

Infrastructure
-------------------
The http://click.apache.org web site now complies with the Apache
branding requirements

Development
------------------

Apache Click 2.3.0 Release Candidate 1 was released on 30th January 2011.

Community
----------------
Mailing list traffic has been heavier  than usual.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Development on Cocoon 3.0 picked up a bit, culminating with three new release
artifacts. Traffic on both dev and users lists remains light. No changes to
PMC and no new committers.

Releases:
 * Cocoon JNet 1.2.0
 * Cocoon Maven Plugin 1.0.0
 * Cocoon Maven Site Skin 1.0.0

No work has been done yet to implement the branding guidelines.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Community Development Project

The Community Development is progressing well, although a little more
slowly than some would have hoped.

No issues require board attention at this time.

Community

Google Summer of Code 2011 is in preparation stages. For the first
time we have more admin volunteers than we need - which is great.

The EU project (OpenSE) that planned to bring students to our
mentoring programme is about to commence its second pilot run. In the
first run we had a number of interested enquiries but nobody actually
started work as a mentee. On the one hand this is a dissapointment, on
the other it is good to know that our ASF volunteers are not wasting
time on the initial phases of engaging mentees that, ultimately, bring
nothing to the project. The OpenSE team believes the main barrier is
the high expectations we have of students - we make it clear that they
must be self-motivated and results oriented. This coupled with the
reputaton of the ASF appears to be intimidating potential mentees. In
the next pilot the learning assistants are focussing on the career
advantages experience with ASF projects can bring and are introducing
a "community game" which will introduce students to the idea of
engaging in public.

Apache-extras.org was launched. As agreed the committee is hands off
on the management of this site. There are currently 89 projects
listed.

Objectives for next period

    * Coordinate Google Summer of Code
    * Analyse use of apache-extras.org


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Continuum Project

Below are the important events that happened in the project since November.

Releases
--------

Continuum 1.3.7 was released on 11 February 2011. This is a security and bug
fix release.

This release covers the security issue CVE-2010-3449, first reported against
Archiva but which originated in a shared library.

The release also covers the security issue CVE-2011-0533, which was reported
to infrastructure against vmbuild.apache.org (which was patched immediately).
This originated from some poor defaults in a third party library.

Development
-----------

...

Community
---------

Added a new committer, Brent Atkinson, in December.

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache CouchDB Project

Apache CouchDB is a distributed JSON document database with an HTTP API.

Released version 1.0.2, a maintenance release that fixes CVE-2010-3854 as well
as a few larger and many minor issues around replication.

Began discussion on dev@ about a detailed road map for the 1.x series.

Continued process to procure an IANA port for the CouchDB API over HTTPs.

New volunteers on dev@ to help out with the Windows port.

Adam Kocoloski was added to the PMC.

Jim Jagielski identified a press article about the newly formed Couchbase that
used incorrect and misleading language describing the Couchbase relationship
to the open source project, and also a failure to identify the project as
Apache CouchDB. The marketing and PR folks for Couchbase have been notified
about the mistakes and informed of correct usage of Apache CouchDB trademarks.

Branding Status: The project website and assorted assets are up to date with
the Branding Board Report Checklist[1].

[1]: http://apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs#checklist


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache ESME Project

Apache ESME's mission: Enterprise Social Messaging Environment (ESME) is a
secure and highly scalable microsharing and micromessaging platform that
allows people to discover and meet one another and get controlled access
to other sources of information, all in a business process context.

Moving to TLP:
ESME graduated from the Incubator in December 2010. The majority
of the items on the Incubator transfer to TLP list have been completed
but not all. We are still using the wiki-based export as our main site
but are working on the CMS-based site.

We've also been discussing branding and have selected a new icon to
reflect our new TLP status.

We are also publishing blogs on the Apache blog site [1] that focus on
aspects of ESME that are of interest to other developers.

Releases:
none yet (as a TLP)

2010-10-09 1.1 (Incubator - last release)

Development:
We are pushing towards our 1.2 release and are learning how best to
use the new functionality (Grasshopper, etc) provided by the JIRA
version change. We are now using Scala Code Coverage Tool (SCCT) [2]
to improve the quality of our tests.

Community:
No changes

Issues:
No Board level issues at this time

[1] https://blogs.apache.org/esme
[2] https://blogs.apache.org/esme/entry/using_scala_code_coverage_tool


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None.

Changes in the PMC membership:
  Gavin McDonald (gmcdonald) resigned.

Progress of the project:
  We finally released 0.9 on 2011-02-07. Many thanks to everyone involved
  over the almost four years since the previous release. The result of lots
  of effort is now available. Enjoy. Please come to our Forrest mailing lists
  for assistance with upgrading your sites, and help us to add features.

  Attend to project branding:
  Most of this is now done. The main banner now has TM. Not yet done for the
  other project logo.
  Many plugin sites need to be re-deployed. As this gradually happens, the
  changes will be reflected.

General status:
  Development has been quiet for the quarter. The 0.9 release late in this
  quarter seems to have sparked some interest in post-release development.

  Questions on the user mail list are being attended to by a few PMC members.
  That list is very quiet.

  In December I prepared a release plan to draw attention, gather enthusiasm,
  and set out a schedule to encourage people to help with the release. That
  release plan was well-supported. For the actual release, we had a few
  people help with testing and review. The vote scraped through.

  So not sure what is the state of project health. Hopefully the release will
  re-invigorate the project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The project continues to make steady progress towards a beta and subsequent
GA release of the httpd 2.4.0 code.  httpd 2.3.9 was tagged in November and 
then scuttled after broad review, while httpd 2.3.10-alpha was released 12/23,
and another incremental release is anticipated very shortly.  The subproject
apreq library update 2-2.13 was also released on 12/3.

Igor Galić was added to the committee roster.  No other changes to committers
or committee roster.

After very brief unanimous decision on the dev list, all 1.3 artifacts are
being relegated to archive.a.o and removed from the active httpd.a.o site.
May they rest in peace with the Foundation's thanks to the many contributors
and authors of this historic first Apache Software Foundation code base.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project

Status
 * Overall the project remains active.


Releases
 * HttpComponents  LICENSE and NOTICE maven plugin 0.0.2 was released on the
13th of  November to support the future releases of the main artifacts

 * HttpCore 4.1 GA was released on the 19th of November 2010

 * HttpClient 4.1-beta1 was released on the 22nd of November 2010

 * HttpAsyncClient 4.0-alpha1 was released on the 18th of January 2011

 * HttpClient 4.1 GA was released on the 24th of January 2011

 * HttpComponents Maven Skin 1.0 was released on the 12th of February
2011 to support site updates


Community
 * Community is healthy with good interaction among developers and users


Development
 * There is an idea to add support for OAuth in future versions of HttpClient


Status of Project Branding Compliance : Fully Compliant

We've been busy lately making the necessary updates to comply with all
the project branding requirements. The site is now updated with changes
for full compliance. We had an initial difficulty including the footer
into the Maven built site, but Sebastian stepped up to the challenge and
has taken care of it.

 * Project Website Basics : Ready
 * Project Naming And Descriptions : Ready
 * Website Navigation Links : Ready
 * Trademark Attributions : Ready
 * Logos and Graphics : Ready
 * Project Metadata : Ready


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

General Notes:

  - EasyAnt has been accepted as a new podling project into Incubator.
  - Lucene.Net has been accepted to re-enter Incubator.
  - Howl is a new proposal, still under discussion on general@. Howl
is a table and storage management service for data created using
Apache Hadoop. The main
    issue for now its name which conflicts with other projects, like
OW2 HOWL for example.
  - Chemistry has been voted successfully to be graduated.
  - Deltacloud started a vote to release version 0.2.0.
  - A thread is running on general@ discussing the voting wait period
of 72 hours. From what I read, most go for the favor for having this
waiting period for starting
    votes.

IPMC Members who asked to go Emeritus:

  - Niclas Hedhman.

Releases:

  - Whirr: 0.3.0-incubating.
  - PhotArk: M3-incubating.
  - ManifoldCF: 0.1-incubating.
  - Chemistry: cmislib-0.4-incubating.

--------------------
Amber

Amber has been incubating since July 2010. Amber is a project to
develop a Java library which provides an API specification for, and an
unconditionally compliant implementation of the OAuth v1.0, v1.0a and
v2.0 specifications. OAuth is a mechanism that allows users to
authenticate and authorise access by another party to resources they
control while avoiding the need to share their username and password
credentials.

The most important issues that must be addressed before graduation are:

* Attract users and developers
* Generate a release

The Incubator PMC / ASF Board should be aware that:

* Community activity is relatively low

How has the community developed since the last report

* Two new committers have joined the project, after contributing some code

How has the project developed since the last report

* An OAuth 2.0 implementation called Leeloo has been contributed to the project
* OAuth 1.0 code previously contributed, has been integrated with the project

--------------------
Bluesky

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution 
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education 
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China. 

Currently, it's the winter holiday now in China. team will be back at 
Feb, 20th. We will continue to organize code and then update svn repos.

--------------------
Celix

Celix is an implementation of the OSGi Specification in C.

Celix entered incubation on November 2, 2010.

A new structure for the project has been used for the framework. In
this structure public and private files are separated. This structure
has not yet been applied to all "sub" project in Celix.
We are also looking at Apache APR for OS abstraction. Using APR would
involve replacing all file handing, threading etc with APR functions.
Finally, work is being done for the talk on the EclipseCon.

Most important issues are:

Add more information to the wiki (ongoing process)
Move all "sub" project to the new structure.
Use APR for all file handling, threading etc.

--------------------
Clerezza

Clerezza (incubating since November 27th, 2009) is an OSGi-based
modular application and set of components (bundles) for building
RESTFul Semantic Web applications and services.

There are currently no issues requiring board attention.

Recent activity:

    * Solved licensing issues for release
    * Scala based shell making demonstration and debugging
      of the system much easier
    * Improved WebID login UserInterface
    * Renamed package named in preparation for release

Next steps:

    * First release imminent
    * Add documentation and tutorial to website
    * Update to Scala 2.8.1

Top 2/3 Issues before graduation:

    * Improve our website with tutorials and "getting started" content.
    * Prepare some easy-to-run demos to get people interested in Clerezza.
add some recent activities and rephrase the rest as it fits

--------------------
Deltacloud

(Incubating since July 2010)

Deltacloud is a cross cloud abstraction API that allows management of
resources (compute and storage) across different IaaS cloud computing
providers using a single, open API. At present Deltacloud supports
management of Amazon EC2, Rackspace, Gogrid, Rimuhosting, Terremark,
RHEV-M, Opennebula compute resources, as well as Amazon S3, Microsoft
Azure and Rackspace Cloudfiles storage resources.

Recent Activity:

Release 0.2.0 is imminent and includes:

  * Dynamically select driver through the X-Deltacloud-Driver HTTP header;
    allow passing in driver-specific endpoint with the
    X-Deltacloud-Provider header
  * New 'load_balancers' collection, supported for EC2 and GoGrid
  * Allow creation/deletion of blobs (S3, CloudFiles, Azure)
  * Return HTTP status 405 when trying to perform an action on a instance
    that is not available
  * Drivers
    + EC2
      - security_group and public_ip features for instance creation
      - switched to aws gem
    + GoGrid: now have two hardware profiles
    + RHEV-M: completely rewritten; now uses RHEV-M REST API, not Powershell
    + Mock:
      - support 'keys' collection
      - switch to storage-only driver by setting provider to 'storage'

Next Steps:

Aiming for a mid March release of 0.3.0 - main issues addressed will
be creation of images from uploaded bits (in cloud storage),
firewalling and improved support for blob streaming.

--------------------

Droids

Droids is an Incubator project arrived from Apache Labs. Droids
entered incubation on October, 2008.

It's an intelligent standalone robot framework that allows one to
create and extend existing web robots.

After the question to close the project coming from the board many
quite user/devs step forward and expressed their desire to prevent
that from happening. The last three months have been very productive
for the project since mailing and issue tracking activity have been
very good. Two new committer has entered the project and started to
commit.

Issues before graduation :

 * Do a release
 * IP clearance

--------------------
EasyAnt

EasyAnt is a tool built on top of Ant and Ivy providing a standard
approach to building java projects without locking the users in.

Incubating since January 31st 2011

issues/agenda

- have the committers of EasyAnt submit the appropriate license
agreements to become Apache contributors

- migrate the code base and the issue tracker

- start working in the Apache environment

--------------------
HISE

* A brief description of your project, which assumes no knowledge of the 
  project or necessarily of its field

Apache HISE (Human Interactions Service Engine) is an open source 
implementation of WS-Human-Task specification (Web Services Human 
Task). It reads Human Tasks definitions provided in XML format and 
handles requests for task creation from external system. It also 
exposes TaskOperations Web Service, which is invoked by task clients, 
such as AJAX web applications in order to fetch and manage task lifecycle. 

After successful completion of a given task by task operator, HISE 
sends response back to external system in order to notify completion.

 * A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards 
   graduation.

1) release version 1.0, most of the WS-Human-Task specification is implemented
2) attract developers
3) create vision and use ceses of product usage

 * Any issues that the Incubator PMC or ASF Board might wish/need to be aware of

It seems that leading developer of the product is no longer contributing to it. 
Project activity is very low - last in November 2010.

HISE has commercial deployments, so it will be in some degree supported.

 * How has the community developed since the last report

Leading developer of the product is no longer contributing to it.

 * How has the project developed since the last report.

Implementation of the 1.0 specification is almost completed. Product has 
commercial deployments.

Signed off by mentor:

gdaniels (commentary - clearly this is not an ideal situation. We should 
discuss how to either get this project back on track with a functional 
community, or consider other options.)

--------------------
Jena

Jena was accepted into the Apache Incubator November 2010
(http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-general/201011.mbox/%3C
4CEC31E4.9080401@apache.org%3E).
It is an existing project migrating to ASF. It has a large
codebase that provides a semantic web framework in Java that implements
the key W3C recommendations for the core semantic web technologies of
RDF and SPARQL.

Three most important issues to address for graduation:

* Create a code base in Apache with legal clearance.
* Establish the Apache-based community for developers, contributors and
users
* Create and communicate open project processes aligned to Apache

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

None.

Community development:

We have started to advertise the existence of Apache-hosted mailing
lists and the last non-Apache release included references to these
lists. Traffic on these lists continues to grow.

Project development:

The mailing lists and JIRA are now being used - we'll start more
active migration of mailing lists when the code migrates.

We are still awaiting the software grant from HP. As this is the
majority of the codebase, we are waiting for this before migrating any
code into Apache SVN. We understand that HP is actively working on
this.

--------------------
Kitty

Kitty was accepted into the Incubator on 10 October 2010.

The Kitty Project is a lightweight, production focused, Java-based
application server performance diagnostic and management utility.
The project has imported existing code, lists have been set up and
committer karma assigned.

The current challenges facing the project are:
* Continue to generate interest and grow a community
* Prepare and work towards a release
* Resolve critical defects introduced during the Groovy port

The Incubator PMC / ASF Board should be aware that:
* Community activity is slow to grow, but communication and progress
is being made towards a release

Since the last report some users have offered ideas as a result of
project presentations at various user groups.

Tasks are being organised and some progress has been made with code.

--------------------
Libcloud

Libcloud is a unified interface into various cloud service providers,
written in Python. Libcloud joined the Incubator on 3 November 2009.

Our last major release was 0.4.2 on 12 January 2011.

Since the last release, we have seen:

 * New drivers for CloudSigma, Brightbox, Rackspace UK
 * Improvements to deployment capabilities
 * libcloud.security module for SSL certificate verification

To engage the community, we have updated the website, renewed our
presence on Twitter, have been actively responding to JIRA and Github
bug reports, and continue to hold discussions to the mailing lists.

We will look to graduatation soon after releasing our next major
version, 0.5.0, which will introduce a Storage component of the API,
and reorganize the existing codebase as Computer.  Furthermore, we
continue to work on diversifying and sharing the release management
process, which we accomplished with a new release manager for 0.4.2.

--------------------
Mesos

Mesos is a cluster manager that provides resource sharing and
isolation across cluster applications.

Mesos entered incubation on December 23rd, 2010

Over the past month, we have continued developing some large features
of Mesos (switching the communication layer to Protocol Buffers to
allow live upgrades and implementing an event history database). We
have also started filing the paperwork with UC Berkeley required to
get a Software Grant Assignment form from them for the IP.

Most important issues to address towards graduation:
 - IP clearance
 - Migrate code from GitHub to Apache SVN
 - Grow the user and developer community
 - Continue improving the documentation for Mesos

--------------------
NPanday

NPanday allows projects using the .NET framework to be built with
Apache Maven. NPanday allows .NET projects to be converted into Maven
projects thus allowing them to fully utilize the other technologies
driven by Maven. NPanday has been incubating since August 2010.

We've staged the NPanday-1.3-incubating release for vote which
includes 2 major issues:

* removal of the UAC
* support for VS 2010 and .Net 4.0 Framework

This release is still waiting for other committers and mentors to test
and get the required binding votes.

Updated documentation was successfully deployed in
http://incubator.apache.org/npanday/docs/1.3-incubating/index.html

Code licenses and license headers have all been reviewed and pass RAT.

IP clearance was completed.

We continue to see new people who have filed issues and submitted
patches as well, however none have yet done it regularly enough to be
considered as new committers.


The top priorities towards graduation are:

* complete 1.3-incubating release

* guide regular patch contributors towards becoming committers

* improve engagement of existing committers


There are no issues for the Incubator PMC or board at this time.

--------------------
Nuvem

Apache Nuvem will define an open application programming interface for
common cloud application services, allowing applications to be easily
ported across the most popular cloud platforms.

Nuvem was accepted for Incubation on June, 2010.

The Nuvem Project has very little to report, as it is still moving
very slowly. A new community member started providing support for a
Chat component based on the Google App Engine XMPP support.

Top things to resolve prior to graduation: Increase the number of
active committers.

--------------------
OpenNLP

OpenNLP is a machine learning based toolkit for the processing of
natural language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks, such as
tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named
entity extraction, chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution.
These tasks are usually required to build more advanced text
processing services.

OpenNLP entered incubation on 11/23 2010.

Since we last reported in January we continued to fill up jira with
more issues, rewrote our maven
based build to comply with general Apache rules and to be ready to
create our first release, fixed a few minor
bugs and re-factored parts of the chunker, migrated the SourceForge
wiki documentation into a docbook for inclusion in future releases,
added build instructions to the website.
We decided to focus on our first release, which will hopefully be out
in March. The release will just contain OpenNLP without any
statistical models to avoid any legal issues which might delay the
release.
Regression testing will mostly be done on private data.
There has been daily activity on dev mailing list and a little less on
the user mailing list.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move
towards graduation:

 * Resolve potential IP issues around releasing training models
 * Do a release
 * Establish open regression tests

--------------------
PhotArk

Apache PhotArk will be a complete open source photo gallery
application including a content repository for the images, a display
piece, an access control layer, and upload capabilities.

 * PhotArk was accepted for Incubation on August 19, 2008.

 * Issues before graduation :
  * PhotArk started as a project with no initial code-base, and we
have grown the community to the minimal 3 independent committer size
required for graduation and have been seeing slow but continuous
interest in the project. The community started discussion graduation
and based on mentors feedback we are going to recruit couple
committers before we start the graduation process.

 * PhotArk released the M3 release which incorporates GSoC contributions.
 * PhotArk is finalizing a Roadmap discussion that will drive
development for most of the rest of the year.
 * Various new contributors are coming to the mailing list and
starting to pick Roadmap items to work thanks for Suho which did a
good job advertising the project in a GSoC meetup in his university.

--------------------
SIS

Apache SIS is a toolkit that spatial information system builders or
users can use to build applications containing location context. This
project will look to store reference implementations of spatial
algorithms, utilities, services, etc. as well as serve as a sandbox to
explore new ideas. Further, the goal is to have Apache SIS grow into a
thriving Apache top-level community, where a host of SIS/GIS related
software (OGC datastores, REST-ful interfaces, data standards, etc.)
can grow from and thrive under the Apache umbrella.

* Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to
be aware of?

Not at this time

* Community progress since the last report

SIS released its first release, 0.1-incubating, to the open source
community in November 2010. Since then, we have focused primarily on
getting the word out about the SIS project and have garnered some
initial interest in the release and subsequent features. Chris
Mattmann has lead efforts to work with Patrick O'Leary to identify
future developments for the SIS project and how it can work with
existing spatial needs.

* Project progress since last report

SIS was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on February 21, 2010.

Development progress since the 0.1-incubating release has been modest,
focusing primarily on the community development mentioned above. There
has been some internal effort at JPL to integrate SIS into ongoing
projects such as the CO2 Portal, the CMDS project and others. We
expect development to start moving more quickly again with the new
year, beginning the push towards 0.2-incubating.

--------------------
Stanbol

Stanbol is a modular software stack and reusable set of components for
semantic content management.
Entered incubation on 2010-11-15.

Community development:
 - Five new committers mentioned in the previous report elected,
accounts requested.

Project activities:
 - Java packages renamed org.apache.stanbol for enhancer and entityhub modules
 - Work on removing LGPL dependencies in the Kres module ongoing
 - Integration tests added to enhancer module via reusable testing tool

Next steps:
 - Finish package renaming
 - Finish LGPL dependencies cleanup
 - Setup Hudson (Jenkins?) continuous integration
 - Make a first release, possibly omitting modules with
ASF-incompatible dependencies
 - Grow the community

--------------------
Stonehenge

Apache Stonehenge

Stonehenge is a set of example applications for Service-Oriented
Architecture that spans languages and platforms and demonstrates best
practices and interoperability

Stonehenge developer community is looking at how to proceed with this
project in the light of transition of WS-I work into OASIS and
finalization of various testing profiles (Basic Profile 1.2, 2.0, and
Reliable Secure Profile 1.0).

Gianugo Rabellino has joined the project as a mentor and will help us
make some decisions around transition or continuation of this work

--------------------
VCL

VCL has been incubating since December 2008. VCL is a cloud computing
platform for the management of physical and virtual
machines.https://cwiki.apache.org/VCL/

Community Involvement

* We are very excited to introduce a new committer, David Hutchins.
* As stated in the previous report, the Apache VCL community continues
to grow. We're seeing more people start to contribute to our online
documentation and file JIRA issues.
* We continue to see growing interest in the VCL project from a
variety of locations. Several others have submitted patches.

Plans for next Release

The next release is scheduled toward the end of February. This will be
a dot release (VCL 2.2.1) to fix a few bugs and add improved code for
handling virtual machines. The 2.3 release is planned for late spring.

Top Issues Before Graduation

* Continue to increase contributors from multiple institutions.
* Discuss next steps for Graduation with mentors.

--------------------
Wave

Wave lets you communicate and collaborate in real time. Wave in a Box
project lets developers and enterprise users run wave servers and host
waves on their own hardware.

Recent activities:

 * Old Google Groups mailing list has been disabled
 * SVN Repository has been created, code not migrated yet
 * Jira has been created, issues not migrated yet
 * Confluence space has been created for project documentation
 * All (bar two) Wave committers got the Apache accounts
 * The implementation of search is well under way
 * First cut of persistence has been tested and reviewed

Most important issues are:

 * Finish building website and wiki on apache.org
 * Migrate source and issue tracking to SVN and Jira
 * Finish implementation of persistence, search/indexing, improved
client-server protocol

--------------------
Whirr

Whirr is a library for running services in the cloud.

Whirr was accepted into the incubator on 11 May 2010. Status
information is available at
http://incubator.apache.org/projects/whirr.html.

Progress since the last report (November 2010): We have made the third
incubator release (0.3.0-incubating). We continue to get contributions
from outside the initial committer base, and have added two committers
(Andrei Savu and Lars George). Whirr is being covered at meetups (e.g.
at the jclouds meetup in January). We have added a new service (HBase)
bringing the number of supported services to four: Hadoop, HBase,
Cassandra, ZooKeeper.

Plans for the next period:
* Encourage community growth.
* Do a fourth release.
* Enhance the existing services, and add more services and cloud providers.

Top three items to resolve before graduation:
* Increase community involvement in the project
* Make several incubating releases (Done)
* Support at least three services on Whirr (Done)

--------------------
Wink

Apache Wink is a project that enables development and consumption of
REST style web services. The core server runtime is based on the
JAX-RS (JSR 311) standard. The project also introduces a client
runtime which can leverage certain components of the server-side
runtime. Apache Wink will deliver component technology that can be
easily integrated into a variety of environments.

Apache Wink has been incubating since 2009-05-27.

Notable Activity:

* Released Apache Wink 1.1.2 since last report.
* Minor bug fixes.
* Most people were on vacation or had work related priorities to take
care of over the past 2 months.

Planned Activity:

* More Java EE 6 integration
* JAX-RS 2.0 is starting up in the JCP.  May attempt to
prototype/develop against the next specification to provide an
eventual JAX-RS 2.0 compliant runtime.

Top issues before graduation:

* Build community

--------------------
Wookie

Wookie is a Java server application that allows you to upload and
deploy widgets for your applications. Wookie is based on the W3C
Widgets specification, but widgets can also be included that use
extended APIs such as Google Wave Gadgets and OpenSocial.

Wookie has been incubating since 17th July 2009

Since November 2010:

    * agreed and documented the release process
    * created scripts for building release packages
    * improved 18n and bidi support to conform with W3C Widgets P&C
spec (97% conformance!)
    * created the first release candidate and invited testing of the
release by the community
    * various bug fixes and improvements (improved IE support, fixing
JPA issues)
    * some of the Wookie contributors connected with the
OpenSocial/Shindig community at an OpenSocial event in Utrecht

Next steps:

    * complete release process for the first release
    * build community - mentors are aware of people using Wookie but
not as part of the project community
        ** community members are organising an event for said users in March
    * deciding on issues and features to prioritise for next release,
quite possibly:
        ** investigation/implementation into replacement for direct
web remoting layer (possibly socket.io) - already started
        ** add oAuth support using Amber when they have a release available

Issues before graduation:

    * complete first release
    * build community/expand user base

--------------------
Zeta Components

Zeta Components is a high-quality library of loosely-coupled PHP
components. It has entered incubation on 2010-05-21. The
infrastructure is mainly in place and the project is working in
direction of a first release.

Since November 2010:

* A release process was voted on
* Coding guidelines was voted on
* Several contributions were proposed

The 3 most important issues to be tackled are:

* Create PEAR channel for release distribution (in discussion with Infra)
* Make a first release (in discussion)
* Attract more contributors


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache jUDDI Project

jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the
Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI v3)
specification for (Web) Services. The jUDDI project includes
Scout. Scout is an implementation of the JSR 93 - Java API for XML
Registries 1.0 (JAXR).

We have taken some more time to work on the 3.0.5 release and have
decided to go for a 3.1 release since we were able to put a nice list
of features. We are in the final stages of the release. Just working
away. No issues to report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Apache Lenya is a Cocoon based XML/XHTML content management system.

Issues:

  No board level issues at this time.

Development:

  Preparing for the next release of the 2.0.x branch.
  Added support to the 2.1.x branch for clustering on the live side.

Community:

  No new committers.
  Developing tentative plans for a get together this summer.

Branding:

  Finalizing the required changes to the graphic and footer. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

- Community

Development activity has been minimal at best.  Mailing lists 
generally responsive to queries.

No progress on developing an agenda and resolutions for an
project "annual meeting" to resolve recurring issues
and future project directions.


- Project Branding Requirements

No progress this quarter.  As previously reported,
the project and log4j logos on the project web site have been updated.
Documentation for the extras companion has been updated to conform
and the site will be updated once the release is accepted.
Other products will be updated during release pushes until
deadline is imminent.

The log4j logo uses uppercase letters while all other mentions
of log4j are lowercase.  The original vector art was not committed
at the same time as the image and altering or redrawing to use
lowercase letters would appear to be difficult.


- Development

log4j 1.2:

Only one commit of a typo fix this quarter.  A release push had been
anticipated.


log4j 2.0:

Three commits by one developer this quarter.  No significant discussion
or community has yet developed.


log4cxx:

No commits this quarter.  As previously reported, 
a log4cxx release that is compatible with Visual Studio 2010 and
that addresses a persistent problem with crashes on shutdown
(particularly with 64-bit systems) is long overdue.

log4net:

No commits this quarter.  

log4php:

15 commits this quarter by one developer.

Chainsaw:

No commits this quarter.  After the development over the last year
or so, Chainsaw is due for a formal release which is dependent
on formal releases of a couple of log4j companions.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

Maven Board Report - February 2011
---------------------------

* General Information

  This month was another active month on the PMC list:

  1) Nothing new has happened wrt Jim and/or Shane talking to Sonatype
     about the Maven mark.  I believe this is key to resolving many of
     the remaining issues.
  
  2) Ralph Vetoed a commit that introduced updated Sisu dependencies
     into Maven core because the license had recently changed to
     EPL. This caused some heated but mostly rational discussion on
     the PMC list and a few outbursts on the dev list. Ultimately some
     positive came from this in the form of a new policy on core
     dependencies[1] and in the dual licensing of two key dependencies
     as ASL/EPL (Aether and Sisu).

  3) As requested, the PMC produced a trademarks-watchlist.txt file[2]
     to track trademark related issues. There are a number of todos in
     this file that need follow up, but the majority of these are not
     new issues/products.

  4) Sonatype launched a new Maven Central search engine[3] which
     prompted another round of discussions about the mark and central
     itself.

  5) Several members of the PMC have expressed frustration with
     interference by some directors and other members outside of the
     PMC. This caused at least one email thread to be taken completely
     off any lists between PMC members directly. Note that no
     decisions are/have taken place externally, but I think this is
     still definitely an area to take notice of.

  6) Some discussion took place around accepted uses of "maven" in the
     names of plugins. This was covered in the policy the PMC was
     drafting that was derailed so we have not voted on an official
     position. I believe so far no conclusion has been reached on this
     as Shane's questions to legal were answered with more
     questions. These types of uses of a mark and whether they are
     potentially infringing would be known best to the related PMC but
     it's unclear how that gets reflected in the official policy as
     published.

  7) There is a vote pending to clarify the PMC expectations around
     Maven Central

[1] "all core dependencies must be either
* under a category a license 
or
* under a category b license and approved by a majority vote of the pmc"
[2] https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/pmc/maven/private/trademark-watchlist.txt
[3] http://mavencentral.sonatype.com


* New PMC Members

* New Committers

* Releases

* Plugins

  * Maven Surefire Plugin 2.7.2 (Tuesday, January 25th, 2011)
  * Maven EAR Plugin 2.5 (Saturday, January 29th, 2011)
  * Maven Changes Plugin 2.4 (Saturday, January 29th, 2011)
  * Maven Plugin Plugin 2.7 (Wednesday, February 9th, 2011)

* Other

  * Maven Indexer 4.0.0 (January 17th, 2011)
  * Maven Stylus Skin 1.3 (Tuesday, February 8th, 2011)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache OODT Project

Apache OODT was made a TLP at the November 17, 2010 board
meeting. This is the third and final of three initial monthly
reports before moving to Quarterly in March 2011.

Releases
-------------

The 0.2 release is out [1]. Paul Ramirez RM'ed the release and
did a fantastic job. We've received some buzz on the release,
with an article in InfoQ magazine [2], and another article being
worked on for NASA spinoff magazine. The 0.2 release includes
registration of the Python portions of OODT in PyPI, our first
release to do so.

Work on 0.3 has started. Andrew Hart has volunteered to RM the
release [3]. One of the big items on tap is how to deal with
getting the OODT jars out to Maven Central.

Press
---------

Sally Khudairi and press@ put Chris Mattmann and Dan Crichton
and Jim Jagielski in touch with NASA Spinoff magazine and Bo
Schwerin. Spinoff wants to run a feature on Apache OODT and
wanted to interview Chris, Dan and Jim. All three interviews
(will) have been completed by Friday 2/11/2011 and a draft of
the article should be available next week.

After the Slashdot article [4], Twitter has had some steady
activity, with folks discovering OODT, blogging about its NASA
heritage (as the first NASA Apache project), and trying to figure
out how to use OODT in their applications.

Community
----------------

The OODT PMC elected Rishi Verma as an OODT PMC member and committer
in February 2011 [5].

Mailing list activity is picking up. There are requests for more OODT
documentation, and some users in the bioinformatics domain and some in
the energy domain have showed up on list with interest to use the
software in their application. In addition, a PhD student was interested
in leveraging OODT for some of his archiving research.

Twitter and Facebook has seen increasing OODT activity as well (see above
for Twitter). We've had between 10-15 join the Facebook OODT group since
the recent press on its promotion to TLP and since its 0.2 release.

Cameron Goodale updated the OODT website to include information about our
releases, and fix some broken links.

[1] http://s.apache.org/PLN
[2] http://s.apache.org/mA
[3] http://s.apache.org/mk
[4] http://it.slashdot.org/story/11/01/08/1544204/Apache-To-Steward-NASA-Built-Middleware
[5] Message ID: <835E6352-7C20-43DB-B796-3F8C1C014D0A@jpl.nasa.gov>


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

No new mod_perl 1.x releases since the last report.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

mod_perl 2.0.5 was released: 7  Feb 2011

This was the first release in a while, and was long overdue. The next
release should happen much sooner, even if it includes a smaller number
of changes.

This release was managed expertly by Fred Moyer, his first turn as
release manager for this project.

--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

Apache-Test 1.36 was released : 2  Feb 2011
Apache-Test 1.35 was released : 22 Jan 2011
Apache-Test 1.34 was released : 18 Dec 2010

--- Apache-SizeLimit --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.  It is used to kill off large httpd child processes
based on various environmental triggers.

Apache-SizeLimit 0.95 was released : 19 Jan 2011


--- Apache-Bootstrap --

Apache-Bootstrap is a framework to make it easier to build perl
module distributions for different mod_perl versions.  It encapsulates
code developed over the years by mod_perl developers to make
maintaining Apache::* and Apache2::* modules in the same distribution easy.

No new Apache-Bootstrap releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Reload --

Apache-Reload is a popular component in most mod_perl development
environments, used to refresh compiled code in the perl interpreter
without completely restarting httpd.

No new Apache-Reload releases since the last report.

-- Apache-DBI --

Apache-DBI is a popular component in many mod_perl deployments. It
is used to provide transparent database connection pooling to clients
using DBI.

Apache-DBI 1.10 was released :  2  Feb 2011

-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be a healthy development community, though
as a mature and stable product development moves at a naturally
slower pace than in years past.  Bugs are found and discussed and
applied with due consideration for our production userbase.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  Nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.


-- PMC --

The PMC succesfully dedicated the 2.0.5 release to the memory of Randy Kobes.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache POI Project

Apache POI is a Java library for reading and writing Microsoft office file
formats.

Community
---------
In the last quarter, we haven't added any new committers. One new
contributor has arrived, who's working on a potentially large new area of
support around ant integration. Yegor is providing mentorship. Assuming the
new code works out, and the contributor remains around for another few
months, we'll look to offer committership. No other potential committers are
currently on the horizon (most people submitting patches tend to promptly
vanish), though we keep on the lookout.

Traffic on the dev list has been steady this quarter. Traffic on the user
list is up again this quarter, and is probably at its best level since
about 2008. We remain grateful to one committer, Mark, who as ever is
working hard to pick up the questions that the community can't answer.

Commit activity and bug fixes seem to be progressing at an OK rate, and
patches are being applied without much delay.

Releases
--------
There have been no releases this quarter (our last release was 3.7 in
Novemeber, around the time of our last board report). We expect to do the
first 3.8 beta release in the near future.

Branding
--------
No change since our last board report. We continue to be almost there WRT
the guidelines, and just need to make a few TM related tweaks to the
website.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project

Apache Qpid is a cross-platform Enterprise Messaging system which
implements the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP), providing
message brokers written in C++ and Java, along with clients for C++,
Java JMS, .Net, Python, and Ruby.

Releases:
The current release is 0.8, which has been released I believe since
the last board report. The Qpid project is in the middle of close down
for the 0.10 release. This is the fastest cycle yet between releases
reflecting the project's goal to move to a more frequent time-based
release cycle.

Issues:
None to report.

Community:
User activity continues to be active, and there is quite a lot of
patch activity from a new dev, which hopefully will earn
committership.

Branding:
Updated and based on feedback we believe that we have updated the site
to the new branding guidelines. Any inconsistencies will be addressed
if we become aware of any are not implemented correctly.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache River Project

Apache River is a distributed computing architecture, based on the JSK
Starter Kit Source code donated by Sun Microsystems, for the Jini
Specification. [While generally referred to as a Service Architecture,
it might be more easily explained to those familiar with Dependency
Injection as a Protocol Independent, Distributed Dependency Injection
Architecture, suited to both hardware and software. Instead of
depending on Protocols directly for communication, everything is
abstracted behind a Java interface, allowing protocols and
implementations to be swapped freely, programming languages other than
Java can also participate.] (to be removed in subsequent reports.)

Moving to TLP:
River graduated from the Incubator in January 2011.  A JIRA task [1]
has be raised for the infrastructure changes, and the migration is in
progress.

[1] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-3418

Releases:
Our previous release was 2.1.2 and happened in March 2010.
We were expecting to make a final release before graduation (in
December 2010) but this was missed and so we are preparing that
release (2.2.0) to be our first as a TLP.

Progress:
Much work has been completed in getting the QA and test environments
working.  The additional running tests have highlighted a handful of bugs,
all of which have been fixed.  The community is currently tackling several
of our post-graduation roadmap items, specifically identifying which JDK
we will continue to support and how our build can best be enhanced/made
modular.

Community:
We have voted on adding a new committer and there is some discussion
whether or not he should also become a member of the PMC, since
explicit inclusion was not specified in the original vote.  We are
resolving that for this individual and will then decide what's best
for the community in the future.

Issues:
No board issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

Apache Roller is a full-featured, Java-based weblogging package that works
well on Tomcat and MySQL, and is also known to run on other servers and
databases. We're currently working to release a major revision of Roller.
Here's what's coming in 5.0:

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER/What's+new+in+Roller+5.0

Since the last report the project has made a third release candidate
available for Roller 5.0 ( http://s.apache.org/roller5rc3). This new release
candidate includes fixes to Roller to allow it to run on the newest Java EE 6
servers including Glassfish 3, JBoss AS 6 and WAS 8 (beta) in addition to
Tomcat.

Roller 5 has been a very long time coming, but I think we are very close
to having a final RC.

We also added some new documentation for building and running Roller on
Eclipse w/Jetty, and a number of new contributors have appeared on the list
and contributed additional documentation for running on Roller w/Tomcat via
Maven and for IDEA IntelliJ. We also got some early interest in the GSOC
program for Roller.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project

The Apache Santuario project is aimed at providing implementation of security
standards for XML.

The last quarter saw two new releases from the Apache Santuario team. Version
1.4.4 of the Java XML Security library was released in November. This release
contains some enhancements to the resolver API's. It also fixes some
longstanding issues with interned Strings, as well as a number of bug fixes.
Version 1.6.0 of the C++ XML Security library was released in December. This
release provides many bug fixes and a partial implementation of draft XML
Signature 1.1 features, including ECDSA signatures.

In addition to the two new releases, the old Forrest-based Santuario website
was ported to confluence and redesigned and updated. We believe the new website
meets all of the Apache branding requirements. As part of the rebranding
exercise, the two libraries will now be refered to as "Apache XML
Security for Java", and "Apache XML Security for C++".

There has been active development on a new Java 1.5 release, which is
targetted at Q2 of this year. The main features of this release are an
upgrade to JDK 1.5, extensive source cleanup and optimisation work, a move
to maven as a release artifact, OSGi support, and dropping Xalan as a compile
time dependency of the project. It will also feature more complete XML
Signature 1.1 support.

In the last quarter there were no new committers or PMC members. Davanum
Srinivas became an emeritus member of the PMC on his own request. In response
to a query from the board about how many members of the PMC are active in the
project, three PMC members (out of 5) actively contribute at a coding level.
The other two are sporadically active in terms of the overseeing the project.
Please note that the recent PMC emeritus departures were all inactive for a
number of years on the project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Subversion Project

No Board-level issues at this time.

The Subversion project has reached its end-game for the 1.7
development line and hopes to perform the branch soon. Meanwhile, the
community is preparing a 1.6.16 release for the week of Feb 21, 2011.

With review from Trademarks and Legal, the Subversion project has
engaged WANdisco about numerous problems with trademark recognition,
attribution, and customer confusion. The CEO has stated that a number
of internal issues have been filed to bring their website, products,
and other aspects in line with the ASF trademark guidelines. Given the
extent of problems, it will take a while to complete this process.

Since the last report, we have (re)added Ben Reser to the PMC. Ben was
previously on Subversion's notion of a "PMC" before joining the ASF,
but was omitted from the original PMC construction resolution. He has
since re-engaged and was added to the PMC via grandfathering rules
(rather than an additional vote). In addition, Johan Corveleyn was
voted onto the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Turbine Project

Apache Turbine Project Board Report, February 2011

Status

The Turbine project has as usual seen fairly low levels of activity in
the last quarter.
The Turbine project has no board-level issues at this time.

Project Branding Board Report Checklist - TBC

The requirements are acknowledged, but not yet addressed.
- Project Naming And Descriptions : use proper Apache forms, describe product,
  etc.
- Website Navigation Links : navbar links included, link to www.apache.org
  included
- Trademark Attributions : attribution for all ASF marks included in footers,
  etc.
- Logos and Graphics : include TM, use consistent product logo on your site
- Project Metadata : DOAP file checkedin and up to date

Community changes

Ludwig Magnusson has been voted in as a Turbine Committer.
No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.
Thomas Vandahl has been elected as the new PMC chair.

Turbine core project

The Turbine core project continues with occasional commits.
A Milestone release is planned for the near future. A user poll led to the
decision to switch to JDK 6.0 for further development.
No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

Fulcrum component project

Work on migrating the build process of the Fulcrum components to Maven 2
continues.
No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

META project

There has been no activity on the META sub-project in this quarter.
No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Tuscany Project

Apache Tuscany is an SOA framework based on OASIS OpenCSA and SCA.

Relatively busy recently with a lot of dev list discussion around beta
releases getting ready for 2.0. There has been one release, 2.0-Beta1,
and voting is now underway on 2.0-Beta2. The user list is also active
with users posting and getting answers. Mailing list subscriber
numbers remain steady. There has been one committer added to the PMC,
and no new committers.

There are no board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

=== Status ===

Flurry of activity before the holidays, quiet since then.

The Velocity project currently has no board-level issues at this time.

=== Community changes ===

Nathan Bubna has assumed Chair duties.

=== Velocity Engine project ===

Velocity Engine 1.7 final release was announced on Nov. 30.

The Engine 2.x branch is now the main development trunk.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Releases
--------
* Axiom 1.2.10 was released on Nov 9th.
* Axiom 1.2.11 was released on Feb 7th.

* WSS4J 1.5.11 was released on Jan 17th.

* Woden 1.0M9 should be out any day now, having passed the release vote.

* XmlSchema 2.0 is in-flight (vote proceeding).

General news
------------

* As mentioned last report, we decided to merge the many
project-specific -dev lists into a single "dev@ws.apache.org", in an
effort to create more of a sustainable community.  This seems to
generally have been successful, although several folks did complain
about the sudden noise level on what used to be individual project lists.

* We re-pinged membership to see who wanted to go emeritus (yes, we know
there isn't an official PMC emeritus status :)), and about 15 people
dropped off the PMC, leaving us with a more active and tuned-in core
membership.

* Development has been steady on our active projects, with quite a few
release trains chugging along.

* The website has been updated (thanks Benson!) to reflect our current
list of projects, but we still haven't cleaned up the SVN structure to
match, nor cleaned out the stuff that should already be gone from SVN.
I plan to handle that but haven't had the cycles.  When this is done,
WS-Commons will  well and truly have been retired.

* We are aware of the Project Branding Checklist, although we have not
done a thorough review as yet.  Will do so for our next report - and
this actually coincides with a bunch of web housecleaning we're in the
midst of anyway.

Subprojects
-----------

Current subproject descriptions follow, but no particular subproject
news below means nothing specifically requiring the board's attention
this quarter beyond the above.

* Apache Woden

Woden is an open source Java implementation of the W3C WSDL 2.0
specification.

* JaxMe2

JaxMe 2 is an open source implementation of JAXB, the specification for
Java/XML binding.

We had a lazy consensus to retire JaxMe, but haven't executed this yet.

* Apache Axiom

Apache Axiom is a StAX-based, XML Infoset compliant object model which
supports on-demand building of the object tree.

* Apache XmlSchema

Apache XmlSchema is a Java object model for manipulating and utilizing
XML Schema.

* Apache Neethi

Apache Neethi is a Java implementation of the WS-Policy specifications.

* Apache WS-Commons

Apache WS-Commons is a collection of projects that are primarily used as
parts of various WS projects but useful even outside the WS space.
WS-Commons houses:
 - various smaller projects such as tcpmon.

* Apache XML-RPC

Apache XML-RPC is a Java implementation of XML-RPC, a popular protocol
that uses XML over HTTP to implement remote procedure calls.

* Apache WSS4J

Apache WSS4J is a Java implementation of the OASIS Web Services Security
(WS-Security) from OASIS Web Services Security TC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

Xerces-J 2.11.0 was released on November 30th, expanding on Xerces'
experimental support for XML Schema 1.1 by providing implementations
for the simplified complex type restriction rules (also known as
subsumption), xs:override and a few other XML Schema 1.1 features.
Xerces-J 2.11.0 also introduced experimental support for XML Schema
Component Designators (SCD). The SCD and xs:override implementations
were developed by students during GSoC 2010. We're already getting
interest for GSoC 2011; 3 students so far who are discussing
possible project ideas on the mailing list. The developers continue
to work on completing the XML Schema 1.1 implementation and are
fixing bugs to improve its confromance to the specification.

Xerces-C

No development activity during the reporting period. Mailing list
traffic has been moderate; about 150+ posts on the c-dev and c-users
lists since the beginning of November.

Xerces-P

Nothing in particular to report. There was no development activity
over the reporting period.

XML Commons

XML Commons has migrated its issue tracking from Bugzilla to JIRA
and the mailing lists have been moved to the @xerces.apache.org
domain. That still leaves the website, download area and SVN
location under xml.apache.org. Those will be moving over to
xerces.apache.org too in the coming months.

No development activity to report, though we got a reply from the
W3C on the JIRA issue
(https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/XMLCOMMONS-61) about their
continuing challenges with excessive DTD (and other schemata)
traffic. It seems that we've already done what we reasonably can on
that front by bundling the XML Commons Resolver with Xerces-J and
that further improvements to caching should be done at the protocol
level.

Apache Project Branding Requirements

On the TLP website there's still some work to do, including adding
TM to the project logo and updates for other trademark attributions.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache XML Project

No issues requiring board attention at this time - and actually no
issues at all in what is now to all extent a dormant project. Will try
and tackle how to deal with XIndice (spin off? attic?) for the next
board report. In the meantime, the XIndice mailing list is still
attended and questions are being answered.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments
================

There are no issues that require Board attention. Developer activity
has increased for FOP and XGC, and has remained rather low for Batik.

XML Graphics Commons
====================

Developer activity has gone up again. The framework for color handling
was extended.

Batik
=====

There have been practically no changes to the codebase in the last
three months. Jeremias has been accepted as a committer to the Batik
subproject. Questions on the user list are mostly getting answers.
Gump builds currently fail because Batik still depends on com.sun
classes for JPEG encoding. This is expected to be resolved soon by
adding XGC as a dependency tor Batik (and thereby reducing code
redundancy between the two subprojects).

Fop
===

Developer activity has gone up again. Nevertheless, the active
committers are not able to handle all incoming patches. The quality of
the code base is now being checked more consistently using findbugs
and checkstyle.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AK: Status report for the Apache ZooKeeper Project

ZooKeeper status report for February 2011.

ZooKeeper is a reliable coordination service for distributed
applications.

The work of moving us to TLP has been underway for the past three
months, an umbrella JIRA is available for tracking progress:
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZOOKEEPER-940

Over the last month porting of the legacy site to the new TLP location
http://zookeeper.apache.org/ has completed. All wiki pages have also
been moved to cwiki
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ZOOKEEPER/Index

All requirements detailed on the project branding requirements page
have been integrated into the new TLP website:
http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs.html

Bylaws have been voted on and approved
http://zookeeper.apache.org/bylaws.html

Release management guidelines have been put in place:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ZOOKEEPER/ReleaseManagement

Guidelines for committership are being worked out:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ZOOKEEPER/CommitterCriteria

New committers:
None. However this issue has been under active discussion for the past
several months. Now that TLP related work is completed we are
officially considering a number of new committers (contributors we've
been actively mentoring).

Two releases are in progress, near term (Q1) a 3.3.3 fix release
(RM assigned), and longer term 3.4.0 feature release.

The ZooKeeper PMC has voted to accept "Clusterlib" as a subproject
(probably under a different, less general name):
http://s.apache.org/yK

Community:

* 6 active committers
* 5 PMC members representing 2 unique organizations
* 199 subscribers on dev
* 398 subscribers on user


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the February 16, 2011 board meeting.

