                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            April 20, 2011


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at
    10:02 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Noirin Shirley
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        Geir Magnusson, Jr. (on vacation)

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci
        Craig L Russell

    Officers Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Paul Querna
        Brian Fox
        Dan Kulp
        John Casey

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of March 16, 2011

       See: board_minutes_2011_03_16.txt
       
       The approval of the minutes was tabled.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Doug]

       A quiet month with few significant board-level events.

    B. President [Jim]

       The budgeting process this year, though started a little bit later
       than I would have liked (my fault, however), went very smoothly.
       Thanks to all committees for their quick and efficient handling
       of the whole budgeting process.

       The board will note that the proposed budget is a balanced one,
       with the deltas from last year's budget noted. The additional
       Platinum sponsor (my thanks go out to Fundraising and Marketing/PR,
       and, of course, all of our sponsors), allows for some timely and
       most needed additional expenditures.

       Since there has been no feedback from the board concerning the
       proposed budget, I expect that we will be able to approve it
       at today's meeting (see 7C).

       Last month I spoke at POSSCON 2011; in addition to a technical talk
       (a preview of Apache httpd 2.4), I also was on a panel discussion
       with Bob Sutor (VP, Open Source & Linux, IBM), Iain
       Sanderson (CMIO, Center for Health Quality) and Bryant Patten
       (Executive Director, National Center for Open Source in Education)
       regarding the "Future of Open Source", as well as doing a keynote
       entitled "Open Source: Not Just for IT Anymore" where I discussed
       the ASF methodology. Next month I will be at the Red Hat Summit
       and OSBC.

       The biggest "issue" the last month has been regarding infra-
       structure; we are having growing pains (no surprise) and trying
       to again juggle the availability of volunteer efforts within the
       demands of a full-time, 24x7 environment. As such, at my urging,
       infra has taken on the task of redefining the role of the VP Infra
       position, with the goal of reducing the load on that position and
       allowing the sub-contracted sys admins more autonomy. We have 2
       excellent full-time sysadmins and requiring the VP Infra to, for
       example, coordinate with vendors for pricing, etc, no longer is
       viable or even needed. The VP Infra will still be the "final" say,
       and will be the one to "do" the actual purchasing, but having them
       be the middle-man makes no sense. This type of streamlining will
       result in a more efficient (and cost-effective) process, as well
       and better managing the load on the whole infra team.

       I was appointed to the Board of the Open Source Initiative (OSI),
       effective April 1, 2011. I do not foresee any conflict of interest
       nor any problems with my accepting this position; rather, I see
       it as an advantage for both the ASF and OSI.

       I am still willing to chat (and lunch) with Wayne from Sonatype
       but as of this writing, I have yet to hear any requests to do so
       from Wayne.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

        There are no outstanding issues re treasury.  Received form from WF
        to do credit card reassignments and will need second board signature.
        Expect to complete that early next week. 

    D. Secretary [Craig]

       Agreements are now mostly being received by email, which makes filing
       very straightforward. In March, 25 ICLAs, five CCLAs, and two grants
       were filed.

    E. Executive Vice President [Noirin]

       A brief verbal report was given.

    F. Vice Chairman [Greg]
    
       The Vice is still here, and ready for action.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       No report was received.

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

       Doug asks whether VP Brand Management should identify the marks that
       we want to register.
       Shane replies that there are a small number of projects that we probably
       want to register.
       Shane asks how urgently the board wants to have all projects in
       compliance with branding policy.
       Greg replies that it's not urgent.
       Shane observes that we are tracking compliance.

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Greg]

       See Attachment 3

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Jim]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Sam]

       See Attachment 7

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley]

       See Attachment 8

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Jim]

       See Attachment 9

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Doug]

       See Attachment 10

    All received officer reports were approved by general consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Noirin]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Aries Project [Jeremy Hughes / Geir]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Attic Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Bertrand]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache Avro Project [Matt Massie / Roy]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Chemistry Project [Florian Müller / Shane]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache CXF Project [J. Daniel Kulp / Bertrand]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache DB Project [Kristian Waagan / Jim]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Geir]

       See Attachment H

       The report was not accepted due to its brevity and format.
       AI Greg: contact the chair and discuss an acceptable report.

    I. Apache ESME Project [Richard Hirsch / Doug]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Geronimo Project [Kevan Miller / Roy]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache Hadoop Project [Ian Holsman / Noirin]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache HBase Project [Michael Stack / Sam]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache Hive Project [Namit Jain / Greg]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Shane]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache Jakarta Project [Rahul Akolkar / Noirin]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache JAMES Project [Norman Maurer / Geir]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Mahout Project [Sean Owen / Jim]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Maven Project [Brian Fox / Sam]

       See Attachment R

       Discussion with Sonatype continues. Major issues are the Maven brand
       and the management of the Maven Central repository.
       It was reiterated that Shane has the authority to speak for the
       foundation with regard to our trademarks.

       AI Jim: Send Sonatype a letter regarding the brand name issue.

    S. Apache MINA Project [Niklas Gustavsson / Greg]

       See Attachment S

       Greg pretended to be surprised that after 40 years there is still
       an FtpServer project.

    T. Apache MyFaces Project [Matthias Wessendorf / Roy]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache Nutch Project [Andrzej Bialecki / Doug]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache ODE Project [Tammo van Lessen / Bertrand]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache OpenEJB Project [David Blevins / Shane]

       See Attachment W

      Jim and Greg appreciate the nice writeup. 

    X. Apache OpenJPA Project [Craig Russell / Bertrand]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache PDFBox Project [Andreas Lehmkühler / Noirin]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache River Project [Tom Hobbs / Roy]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Shindig Project [Paul Lindner / Sam]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Shane]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Greg]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Geir]

       See Attachment AD

    AE. Apache Thrift Project [Bryan Duxbury / Doug]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache Tika Project [Chris A. Mattmann / Jim]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Doug]

       See Attachment AG

    AH. Apache Traffic Server Project [Leif Hedstrom / Roy]

       See Attachment AH

       Jim asked if Shane needed help in reviewing branding compliance after
       a project reports completion.
       Shane would like volunteers to help in this task.

    AI. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AI

    AJ. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Jim]

       No report was received from the project chair.
       Little activity in the project: no commits since August 2010.
       This project is bound for the Attic.
       AI Jim: contact the chair.

    All committee reports except for Xalan and Directory were approved
    by general consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Resolution to change the Apache CouchDB Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Damien
       Katz to the office of Vice President, Apache CouchDB, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Damien Katz from the office of Vice President, Apache CouchDB,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache CouchDB
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Jan Lehnardt as the
       Successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Damien Katz is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache CouchDB, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jan Lehnardt be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache CouchDB, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       This resolution passed with Noirin voting no, Shane abstaining,
       and all others voting in favor.

    B. Resolution to change the Apache Struts Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Martin
       Cooper to the office of Vice President, Apache Struts, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Martin Cooper from the office of Vice President, Apache Struts,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Struts
       project has chosen by vote to recommend René Gielen as the
       Successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Martin Cooper is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Struts, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that René Gielen be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Struts, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       This resolution passed unanimously on a roll call vote.

    C. 2011-2012 FY Budget

       The President has proposed a 2011-2012 FY budget for the Foundation,
       as provided in Attachment AK.

       By roll call vote, the board unanimously approved the budget for
       the Foundation's 2011-2012 fiscal year as proposed in Attachment AK,
       without modification.

    D. Resolution to change the Apache Hive Chair
   
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Namit Jain
       to the office of Vice President, Apache Hive, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Namit Jain from the office of Vice President,
       Apache Hive, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Hive
       project has chosen by vote to recommend John Sichi as the
       successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Namit Jain is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Hive, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that John Sichi be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Hive, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       This resolution passed unanimously on a roll call vote.

    E. Resolution to change the Apache Directory Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Alex
       Karasulu to the office of Vice President, Apache Directory, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Alex Karasulu from the office of Vice President,
       Apache Directory, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache
       Directory project has chosen by vote to recommend Pierre
       Arnaud Marcelot as the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Alex Karasulu is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Directory, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Pierre Arnaud Marcelot be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Directory,
       to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       This resolution passed unanimously on a roll call vote.

 8. Discussion Items

    New VP Apache Infrastructure

    Discussion as to what this role should be. Front line interaction with
    vendors? Oversight and approval? Part time? Full time? 
    The discussion will continue on the infrastructure mail lists.

    Date for May Meeting: 18 or 25 May?

    Doug will resolve this offline.

    Did we announce our new members already? Blog post?

    There is a draft blog announcing new members but it's not published.
    AI Bertrand: work with Sally to publish the blog.
    
 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

   * OSUOSL+others thank yous.

   We want to thank OSUOSL with a donation "in kind" of a refrigerator
   packed with potables of an intoxicating nature. We should be sure to
   invite jerenkrantz to participate in this action.

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 11:22am. (Pacific)


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

Operations And Community
========================

Reviewing board reports shows that a number of projects have not actually 
reported a branding status update. Of projects that have reported status, 
most are nearing completion, except for adding TM's to graphics & logos.
Will send followup to pmcs@ and will need assistance confirming that all 
projects report branding status in reports going forward until complete.

Looking for more feedback/review of the draft Domain Name Branding Policy [1]
before finalizing it and using that as the basis of a Service Naming policy.
I urge all board members to review [1] and provide feedback on trademarks@, 
since I think it best expresses the ethos of how we want to allow uses 
of our marks in non-software product areas. 

External Requests
=================

The Maven PMC has begun working directly with Sonatype on the management of 
the central repository Maven uses, which I believe is the most important 
issue to resolve.  There are some other existing strictly branding-related 
issues to work on with Sonatype, which are progressing slowly due to lack 
of volunteer cycles. 

Assisting the Hadoop PMC on contacting several software vendors using our 
Hadoop mark in a variety of ways.

Reviewed a trademark question from an aspiring musical rap artist who wants 
to name their band after one of our projects.

[1] http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/domains.html

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

We have a new silver sponsor... PSW group is a silver sponsor and has been
invoiced.  I need to get a logo from them to post it to the thank you page
and then make the announcement broader.  I hope to get the logo up before
the board meets.

We had an inquiry from a third party wanting a sponsorship spot on an Apache
project.  They were not looking for a foundation-wide sponsorship as much as
a project specific relationship, if possible.  I'm going to write the PMC
to see what options there is to put a "vendors who are compatible with us"
or something like that.

We discussed the status of the HP hardware donation with the infra team

Greg Stein visited several platinum sponsors in San Francisco... Google,
Microsoft, and Facebook are all happy, if anything they would like to figure
out how to help us more.

Google and AMD need to talk renewals for next month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

ASF MARKETING & PUBLICITY STATUS: APRIL 2011

N. Team: ASF executive assistant Melissa Warnkin will be supporting
various activities within Marketing & Publicity, and had a face-to-face
orientation and planning session with Sally Khudairi on 29 March to begin
this work. Jim Jagielski was unable to attend due to a family emergency.

I. Budget: Final expenditures have been charged against the M&P budget,
including HALO contract balance and reimbursements, as well as clipping
and database fees. The draft budget for FY2011-2012 was reviewed and
approved by Jim. The HALO contract was extended through the end of the
current fiscal year.

II. Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: Sally connected an ASF sponsor
regarding trademark requirements relating to their upcoming participation
in an Apache-oriented conference. Sally has also been working with Greg
Stein to connect with a sponsor regarding publicity at the platinum
sponsorship level.

III. Press Releases: no formal press releases were issued over the PR
NewsWire service during this time period.

IV. Informal Announcements: the following announcements were distributed
to our dedicated press/analyst list (only; not PR Newswire), as well as
posted on the ASF blog and Twitter feed:

- 13 Apr: [@TheASF Twitter feed] ApacheCon CFP is OPEN: you know & love
  Apache. Register today for special "Trust Us" rate -- up to 45% off! Ends
  soon http://apachecon.com/
- 24 Mar: [ASF/Foundation blog] Apache Hadoop Wins MediaGuardian
  "Innovator Of The Year" Award
- 24 Mar: [@TheASF Twitter feed]Congratulations to Apache Hadoop for
  winning MediaGuardian @GuardianMegas "Innovator Of The Year" Award!
  http://s.apache.org/v2
- 19 Mar: [@TheASF Twitter feed] Registration for @ApacheCon is now open.
  Save 45% w/super-early "Trust Us" rate whilst CFP is open. Register/submit
  at http://apachecon.com/
- 19 Mar: [ASF/conferences blog] Registration for ApacheCon North America
  Now Open!
- 17 Mar: [@TheASF Twitter feed] The March Netcraft Survey is in: the
  Apache HTTP Web Server remains the leading Web server, powering more than
  179 Million sites worldwide!
- 17 Mar: [@TheASF Twitter feed] Did you know that @CNES_France uses
  Apache Commons Math as the basis of their next generation space Flight
  Dynamics Systems?

All PMCs are invited to forward success stories and innovative uses of
Apache products for the "Did You Know?" Twitter campaign. Please contact
Sally at press-AT-apache-DOT-org for more information.

V. Media Relations: we reviewed an article for publication on (incubating)
Jena, and contacted the authors/editors of a write-up that incorrectly
referenced Apache Hadoop as the "Apache distribution of Hadoop". We
continue to do quite a bit of course-correction with members of the media
and analyst community, particularly in relation to those projects with
strong commercial interest...

VI. Analyst Relations: it's been a bit quiet in terms of direct contact,
but we have received an indirect query from a research firm for assistance
on a project they're working on that focuses on Apache Hadoop.

VII. ApacheCon liaison: Sally has stepped down from managing the
CFP/programming/planning activities now that Noirin Shirley and Nick Burch
are able to do so. Sally continues to work on top-level conference
marketing and publicity strategy, as well as securing community partners
such as OSCON and the Meaningful Use of Complex Medical Data Symposium.

VIII. (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison: Jim spoke and
presented on a keynote panel at POSSCON 23-24 March. Sally secured a
partnership with OSCON (25-29 July) that formalizes the ASF's presence and
participation (at the new OSCON Data and OSCON Java events, co-located
with OSCON proper). This includes tagging all Apache- related
presentations on the public schedule, a roll-up page with all Apache
related sessions, providing space for any ASF projects to meet onsite at
OSCON (most likely on the Sunday), and cross-event community partnership
(the ASF will be an OSCON community partner, and OSCON will be an
ApacheCon community partner). We are also helping promote some
Apache-focused events, such as Berlin Buzzwords, primarily through the
@ApacheCon Twitter feed, and occasionally on @TheASF feed.

IX. PR Newswire account: we have 11 pre-paid press releases with
PRNewswire through 3 March 2012.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

HTML WG continues to make progress towards Last Call.  Current
schedule:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2011Mar/0759.html

The PSIG has made public the licenses that they have been discussing:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2011Mar/0757.html

Mozilla has proposed an additional license option for consideration:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2011Apr/0263.html

There will be an W3C Advisory Council meeting May 15-17th.  I'll be
representing the ASF there.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

More discussion than recent months; nothing requiring board attention.

Most significant (both in terms of volume of discussion and in terms of
relevance) is that the ASF legal web site was updated to clarify that ASF
projects may have purely optional dependencies that are not enabled by
default on codebases made available under licenses such as the LGPL.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For March 2011: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@.  These continue to be dealt with
by the security team.

2     Support question
2     Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
4     Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
1     Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

The CFP is currently open for ApacheCon NA'11. Although we're ahead of
where we have been in other years, the schedule remains tenuous. Of
particular concern, elements that I thought had been cleared up on my call
with the producer appear not to have been - apparent already are the lack
of reports and issues around program selection.

We do have volunteers to work on the program selection, but we still need
to figure out the technical details - I had understood on the call that
the mechanism was already in place and it was just a matter of adding
appropriate ACLs. This appears to have been a misunderstanding.

I've brought these issues up, and hopefully we can sort them out sooner
than later.

OSCON have come onboard as a Community Partner of ApacheCon. They will tag
all Apache-related sessions and provide a single jump-off point with
information about those sessions on their website. They are also amenable
to providing space for Apache groups to meet onsite, particularly on the
Sunday before the conference. In return, we will provide promotion for
OSCON on the ApacheCon site, in our emails and via social media.

Things are going well for the Retreat. We have fewer signups than last
year, but still a month to go. We're also significantly less likely to
have no-shows this year, as people are buying tickets (paying for their
food) ahead of time.

Once again thanks to the EA for her help with Retreat logistics - two TAC
attendees will be joining us!

Nick's work to ensure archive copies of previous ApacheCon sites are
available and served from our infrastructure is well underway - huge kudos
on what is a mammoth task!

Several proposals in various states of readiness have been floated on the
ConCom list for BarCamps, as well as for alternate types of events. No
significant progress has been made, but it's heartening to see things
starting to stir again--spring has finally sprung!


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Cancelled our incorrect order for warranty support with Dell.
The order was subsequently replaced with a lower-cost version ($1000),
covering the same equipment for a 1y term.

Sent a purchase order to Technologent for 1y warranty support on thor
(confluence) and gaea (zones).

Purchased and received a Dell r210 for $1700 for managing our VMWare
VSphere installation.

Corrected our contact information with Dell for the umpteenth time.

Had OSUOSL deal with the mis-shipment from HP.  Correct replacement parts
are expected to arrive soon.

Provided a little mod_rewrite magic to simplify our main webserver
config.

Upgraded Confluence in advance of a public security notice.

Purchased a pair of Intel nics: 1 to go into the HP gear and 1 for
emergencies.

Tweaked the network config on eris (svn) and eos (websites) to alleviate
chronic downtime problems.

Made an aborted attempt to upgrade minotaur (people) to new gear.  Will
be repeating that process shortly, this time using our HP donation as 
the target host.

Mohammad Nour was granted karma to help Paul Davis sort out git hosting.

Received a comprehensive XSS vuln report for several services we offer.
Still working through the list.

Offered Ryan Pan infra-interest karma for his penchant for running 
vmstat on minotaur (people).

Renewed our service warranty with Dell for 2y covering hermes (mail) and
eris (svn). Price: $1200.

Sorted out the confusion regarding the iLO license for the HP gear.

pear.apache.org was requested by a couple of PHP projects, it is now 
live ready for projects to put PEAR releases on.

Citing a lack of time, Philip, the current VP, asked for someone
to be appointed by Jim, president.  It seems unanimously agreed, at
this time, this is not in the best interest of the foundation or the
infrastructure team.  Instead, some of this role's responsibilities,
which are too much for a volunteer over the long run, are going to be
doled out to a new part time paid contractor and the current full-time
staff.  Its hoped this will reduce the workload of the role to about
~5hrs/week. This is reasonable for an active volunteer.  We will
re-evaluate this after the new position is up and running.  Philip
is able to continue with the VP position for now with this reduced work
load.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

No changes to membership since last report.

The Budget got submitted on time, our thanks to the EA for getting 
information to me.

Discussions have begun on a timeline for ApacheCon NA 2011 - when should 
we open applications, etc.
Only Nick has chimed in so far, if no other opinions then we'll open 
early and have a second round later on like we did last time.

No other news.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

Community:
* The development and user lists continue to stay active.
* Alex Dean (alexd) added as a committer to the project

Development:
* Development has started on the next ActiveMQ 5.6 release.
* Development continues on the ActiveMQ Apollo 1.0 release.
* Development has started on the next Apache.NMS.ActiveMQ 1.5.1 release.
* ActiveMQ-CPP v3.3.0 is being prepared for release.

Releases:

* Apache ActiveMQ 5.5.0
* Apache ActiveMQ Apollo 1.0 Beta 1
* Apache ActiveMQ-CPP v3.2.5
* Apache.NMS.ActiveMQ 1.5.0
* Apache.NMS.Stomp 1.5.1
* Apache.NMS.Stomp 1.5.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Aries Project

Aries delivers a set of pluggable Java components enabling an enterprise OSGi
application programming model.

Since the last board report, there have been enhancements to the 'proxy'
module to which has improved its performance by making use of the new
'Weaving Hook Service' OSGi specification (in 4.3) as an alternative to ASM.
This also removes some restrictions on final classes/methods imposed by use
the use of ASM. The 'spi-fly' module's OSGi service approach to
META-INF/services has also been updated to make use of the Weavking Hook
Service gaining similar benefits.


Some more documentation on the new release-by-bundle release process has
been written. This positions us nicely to demonstrate and make use of the
OSGi Semantic Versioning scheme. Now that the parent-0.4 module has been
released, we are in a position to use it for the next release.

Community update
----------------
Small increase in since last month dev@ 118 subscribers, user@ 134
subscribers. There has been a slight increase in user list traffic. The dev@
list continues to be active with less traffic on the user@ list. No new
committers or PMC members.

There are no board level issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Attic Project

Short 'n sweet: no issues requiring board attention at this time.
Excalibur was moved to the Attic, and we are currently in wait mode for
more projects.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Avro Project

== Issues ==

There are no issues that require the board's attention at this time.

== Community ==

Progress has been steady.  Recent contributions include a C#
implementation and major additions to the C, C++ and Java
implementations.

Two new committers were added, Douglas Creager and Stephen Gargan.

== Releases ==

Avro 1.5.0 was released on 10 March.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Chemistry Project

== Status report for Apache Chemistry ==

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide an implementation of the 
CMIS (Content Management Interoperability Services) specification 
in Java, Python, PHP, and .NET (and possibly other languages).
The project has graduated in February 2011.

== Project status ==

All graduation tasks have been completed. All subprojects that had 
incubator releases now have a TLP release.
The project activity is steady.

A public OpenCMIS server has been set up on a Windows Azure instance.
It is open for internal and external testing.

The editing of the CMIS 1.1 specification draft has been kicked off. 
That will probably increase the project activity within the next 
weeks and months.

== Community ==

No changes within the last four weeks.
Multiple contributors offered help to foster new features and releases.
There have been discussions to add another committer who provided several 
patches and enhancements in the past weeks.
A few PMC members will meet at the Apache Retreat in Knockree in May.

== Releases ==

DotCMIS 0.2 (.NET) and OpenCMIS 0.3.0 (Java) have been released.
cmislib (Python) and phpclient (PHP) releases are planned for Q2.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache CXF Project

Releases:
2.3.2 released
2.3.3 released
2.3.4 released
2.4.0 released


New committers:
Dennis Sosnoski for his work on the WS-RM stuff as well as his contributions 
to CXF in the form of articles and publications (IBM developer works for 
example) and general contributions on the user list.

Aki Yoshida for his work on WS-RM and JMX/Management and contributions on the 
users list.

New PMC members:
Andrzej Michalec was voted into the PMC, but he's still trying to get approval 
from his company as to whether he can accept or not. 


Community update:

User and dev list traffic remains pretty steady and generally questions and 
issues are answered promptly.

The release of 2.4.0 is exciting for the community as it introduces several 
new features that the community has bean asking for.   It also includes the 
results of 2 of the Google Summer of Code projects from last summer.   
Developing 2.4.0 also required much closer collaboration between the Apache 
CXF and the Apache WebServices projects to get updates and releases of various 
components in WebServices which we feel was healthy for both communities.

In Feb, there was a long discussion about "commercial" links on the web site.
( http://s.apache.org/MID ) which was a bit contentious but did result in a 
policy of some sort to make sure the commercial links are limited to one area
of the web site and is "fair" for all involved.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache DB Project

The Apache DB TLP consists of the following subprojects:
 o DdlUtils - a small, easy-to-use component for working with Database
              Definition (DDL) files.
 o Derby    - an open source relational database implemented entirely in Java
 o JDO      - focused on building the JDO API and the TCK for compatibility
              testing of JDO implementations.
 o Torque   - an object-relational mapper for java.

== Status ==
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

Activities over the last quarter:
 1) The PMC discussed concerns regarding licensing for Apache Derby and
    JDBC 4.1. Legal was consulted, see LEGAL-86. The conclusion reached is that
    Derby doesn't violate any licensing terms by releasing 10.8.1 with JDBC 4.1
    support.
 2) Some trademarks work done, more work remains. DB is not yet compliant.
 3) Moving OJB to the Attic is still in progress, see issue ATTIC-113 for
    details.
 4) Removed old releases from dist.
 5) The Derby community is about to push 10.8.1 out the door.

== Community ==
No PMC changes since December 2010.
No new committers since August 2010.

== Releases ==
No new releases, see previous board report for details.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Board report wise we just had a couple LDAP-API releases and no change
in the community committership or the PMC besides the chair change.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache ESME Project

Apache ESME's mission: Enterprise Social Messaging Environment (ESME) is a
secure and highly scalable microsharing and micromessaging platform that
allows people to discover and meet one another and get controlled access
to other sources of information, all in a business process context.

Releases:
2011-03-14 1.2 

Development:
We are continuing work on our 1.3 release. New committer Vladimir Ivanov
has implemented container-based authentication and LDAP authorization -
two features that users have often requested. 

Community:
No changes

Issues:
No Board level issues at this time


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

No major issues that require Board attention.

The Geronimo community remains quite active as they move towards a
Geronimo 3.0 release. However, no releases were performed as the
community has been largely focused on TCK testing and additional
features needed for Java EE 6. I expect to see more release-focused
activities in the upcoming months.

COMMUNITY

There are 510 subscribers to the user@ and 420 subscribers to the dev@
mailing lists. Activity on these mailing lists remains steady.

NEW COMMITTERS

Chi RunHua (Jeff) was voted as a new committer in April for his
contributions to Geronimo documentation.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Hadoop Project

Hadoop status report for April 2011

    Hadoop is a set of related tools and frameworks for creating and
    managing distributed applications running on clusters of commodity
    computers.

    On the people side, we have a couple of new people join our ranks.
     * Todd Lipcon has accepted a role in the PMC
     * Koji Noguchi has accepted a role as a committer in both HDFS & MR.
     * Matthew Foley has accepted a role as a committer in HDFS.
     * We have another invitations outstanding, and hope he will take
       up the committer role shortly.

    On the branding side, we and the trademark group have been actively
    engaging companies to make proper use and attribution of our Apache Hadoop
    Trademark. These discussions are ongoing, and generally positive.

    On the product release side, Nigel is continuing to progress with the 0.22
    release. We have 18 outstanding blockers.  HADOOP-7106, which re-organizes
    some SVN structure, should be committed by the end of next week.
    MAPREDUCE-2178 is the biggest outstanding blocker that many other depend
    on.  Still no clear plan on getting it fixed.

    and Arun has taken over with the 0.20.200 (formerly known as 0.20.3).
    He pushed a giant patch to the branch-0.20-security branch. Then, based on
    the feedback from the community, Owen took over and committed individual 
    patches for the same codebase to the branch. Currently we have a couple of 
    unit tests failing, after fixing them we should be good to make an 
    official release after getting necessary approvals from the PMC. 

    Discussions around rationalize the codebase have started, with mrunit 
    being moved to the incubator, and further discussions about either 
    maintain the contrib modules or moving them to apache-extras/incubator

    The biggest news is saved for last. Yahoo! has announced that they will
    stop maintaining their own internal codebase, and switch to actively 
    developing on the apache one. This is a great step forward, and they have
    also started having more discussions about architecture (MR-279) on the 
    list. We look forward to more in-depth discussions happening in the 
    public forums.


COMMON

    Common is the shared libraries for HDFS and MapReduce.


    Releases:
    * None this period.

    Community:
    * 1194 subscribers on common-dev
    * 2293 subscribers on common-user
    * 1328 subscribers on general

HDFS

    HDFS is a distributed file system that supports reliable replicated
    storage across the cluster using a single name space.

    New committers:
    * 2 new committers has been added to this project.

    Community:
    * 35 committers
    * 375 subscribers on hdfs-dev
    * 631 subscribers on hdfs-user

MAPREDUCE

    MapReduce is a distributed computation framework for easily writing
    applications that process large volumes of data.

    Releases:
    * None this period.

    New committers:
    * 2 new committer has been added to this project.

    Community:
    * 37 committers
    * 400 subscribers to mapreduce-dev
    * 764 subscribers to mapreduce-user


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache HBase Project

HBase status report, April 2011

HBase is a distributed column-oriented database built on top of Hadoop
Common and Hadoop HDFS

ISSUES FOR THE BOARD'S ATTENTION

None at this time.

RELEASES

We released 0.90.0 in January, 0.90.1 in February, and last week, we 
released 0.90.2.

Developer focus is now mostly on getting 0.92.0 out.

COMMITTERS

No new committers during this period.

COMMUNITY

We had a well attended meetup in February [1] and an open hackathon
in March [2]

User mail has about doubled over same period last year.

511 subscribers to the dev list
1217 subscribers to the user list
97 subscribers to the issues list

1. http://www.meetup.com/hbaseusergroup/events/16492913/
2. http://www.meetup.com/hackathon/events/16770852/



-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Hive Project

Hive status report for March 2011.

Hive is a data warehouse written on top of Hadoop.  It provides SQL to
query and manage data stored in Hadoop in table and partitions and
provides a metastore to metadata information about the data stored in
hadoop.

Releases:

0.7.0 released on March 29, 2011.

New committers:
No new committers since Feb.'2011
One new committer has been recently proposed.

Community:
* 286 contributors (commented, filed bugs or contributed to Hive).
 This was 270 at the last report time (Feb.' 2011)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

A remarkably quiet month in general, with no Board level issues.  One
project, Apache OGNL (http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/OGNLProposal) is
under consideration.

JSPWiki, Olio and VXQuery did not report.  Neither did SocialSite, but that
was previously voted into dormant status.

---------------------------------------------------------------

April 2011 podling reports

--------------------

Apache ACE is a software distribution framework that allows you to centrally
manage and distribute software components, configuration data and other
artifacts to target systems. ACE started incubation on April 24th 2009.

There are currently no issues requiring board or Incubator PMC attention.

Community:

Angelo gave a talk about massive device deployment and Karl and Marcel did a
tutorial about ACE in the Cloud at EclipseCon / OSGi DevCon.
We're gathering EclipseCon / OSGi DevCon feedback to populate the roadmap
and raise the corresponding Jira issues.

Software:

A lot of work has been done on the build to fully support Maven 3.
We started to work on the documentation also.
Use of Apache Karaf as default runtime is in progress.
Cloud extensions based on jclouds have been added, including a new launcher.

Licensing and other issues:

None at the moment.

Things to resolve prior to graduation:

We created a SVN maven repo waiting for some Felix dependencies release.
Make a release.
Grow the community some more.


--------------------

BlueSky

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

The following items have been performed since the last reporting period:
* test the stability of system on a certain scale.
* add the function of recording video in the teacher part.

The following items are planned for the next reporting period:
* go on testing the stability of system


--------------------

Celix

Celix is an implementation of the OSGi Specification in C.

Celix entered incubation on November 2, 2010.

During the EclipseCon a talk was given over Celix, also spoke with several
OSGi people who are interested in the progress, especially related to
Universal OSGi (which details specification and requirements for OSGi in
other languages).
During the last few weeks work has been done to get rid of memory leaks and
null pointers.
Currently we are looking at the requirements/details for bundle deployment
and updating, possibly in combination with Apache Ace.

Most important issues are:

- Define a status overview of what is and isn't working.
- Move all "sub" project to the new structure.
- Use APR for all file handling, threading etc.
- Generate awareness and grow a community


--------------------

Chukwa

Chukwa is a distributed log collection and processing system built on top of
Hadoop and HBase.  Chukwa is waiting for a official working release of
Hadoop 0.2x and HBase 0.9x.  There are certain API incompatibility in
metrics collection system to prevent them working together.  This is a
blocker for Chukwa 0.5 release.

Chukwa entered incubation on August 5th, 2010.


--------------------

EasyAnt

EasyAnt is a tool built on top of Ant and Ivy providing a standard approach
to building java projects without locking the users in.

Incubating since January 31st 2011

issues/agenda:
- 1 ICLA missing. The person does not answer since Feb 4th 2011, when he
indicated he was working on getting the ICLA. The svn logs have been
gathered and shared between the PPMC members in preparation for a possible
cleanup of the svn tree of that person's contribution.

activity since last report:
- the web site http://incubator.apache.org/easyant/ is published via
svnpubsub
- while reviewing the licenses of the software included in the svn tree of
Easyant, some dependency on external LGPL library was found. There are
somehow optional to EasyAnt core, but not for the "plugin" dedicated to the
integration of that third library. A consensus was found by the developer
community to not release such software under the ASF.


--------------------

Empire-db

Apache Empire-db is a relational database abstraction layer that allows
developers to take a more SQL-centric approach in application development
than traditional ORM frameworks. Its focus is to allow highly efficient
database operations in combination with a maximum of compile-time-safety and
DBMS independence. Empire-db has entered Incubation in August 2008.

Activity since last report:
- We have successfully completed and published our 2.1.0 release with few
but major improvements.
- We have increased your community by taking on a new long-time contributor
as a new committer.

Important issues to address for graduation:
We still need more contributors and more attention in the Java community.
Recently we experience increased traffic on the user lists and there are
plenty of plans on the development side. The challenge will be to keep users
interested and let them participate in the development process.


--------------------

HCatalog

HCatalog is a table and storage management service for data created using
Apache Hadoop.

HCatalog has been incubating since March 2011.

This is the first HCatalog Incubator status report.  The project is still
setting up infrastructure, etc.  Mailing lists and JIRA have been set up.
The initial code has been received from Yahoo.  Details of the status are
available at http://incubator.apache.org/projects/hcatalog.html

Currently there are 14 subscribers on the user list and 15 on the dev list.


--------------------

Imperius

The Imperius project is currently holding discussions about suspending the
project. The project did create an SPL implementation and created a release.
However, it has not been able to build a community around the project. The
consensus of the project appears to be to suspend work on the project. The
community should be holding a vote on this soon.


--------------------

Jena

Jena was accepted into the Apache Incubator November 2010
(http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-general/201011.mbox/%3C4
CEC31E4.9080401@apache.org%3E). It is an existing project migrating to ASF.
It has a large
codebase that provides a semantic web framework in Java that implements
the key W3C recommendations for the core semantic web technologies of
RDF and SPARQL.

Three most important issues to address for graduation:

* Create a code base in Apache with legal clearance.
* Establish the Apache-based community for developers, contributors and
users
* Create and communicate open project processes aligned to Apache

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

None.

Community development:

We have started to advertise the existence of Apache-hosted mailing lists.
Traffic on these lists continues to grow.

A new work area on enhancing the native storage system with transaction
support is being conducted in public on Apache cwiki and mailing lists.

Project development:

We are still awaiting the software grant from HP. As this is the majority of
the codebase, we are waiting for this before migrating any code into Apache
SVN. We understand that HP has progressed this and has decided on the
details for signing.


--------------------

JSPWiki

DID NOT REPORT.


--------------------

Kitty

Community building efforts have been initiated within the Groovy community
to help us get to our first release.
We have succeeded in generating interest and Groovy contributors have
offered to assist on the project by contributing patches/expertise.

No further development advances have been made.


--------------------

Lucene.NET

Lucene.Net was accepted into the Apache Incubator in February 2011.
Originally it was a sub project of the Lucene Project.

Lucene.Net is a port of the Lucene search engine library, written in C# and
targeted at .NET runtime users.

Recent Activity:

* New website has been launched
* All Java Lucene changes for 2.9.4 have been ported and pre-release testing
has begun.

Current Activities:

* Complete testing of 2.9.4 version for release
* Implement a process for continuous integration, unit testing, and code
coverage
* Develop a process to automatically (as much as possible) convert the Java
Lucene code to C# (to maintain our line by line port)

Goals for graduation:

* Have a nearly fully automated process to convert Java Lucene to C#.
* Release Lucene.Net 3.0.3 (port of Java Lucene 3.0.3)
* Have a new .NET version of Lucene utilizing .NET constructs and idioms


--------------------

Lucy

Lucy is a loose port of the Apache Lucene search engine library, written in
C
and targeted at dynamic language users.

Lucy was voted into the Incubator on July 22, 2010.

Progress since the last report:

* Added new committer David Wheeler.
* All but two dependencies with problematic licenses eliminated.
* RAT report integrated.
* Release guide expanded.
* Continuous minor developments (e.g. ported more Perl code to C, binding
  compactness improved, Windows and C++ compatibility restored,
miscellaneous
  bugfixes and improvements).

Top priorities prior to graduation:

* Disperse knowledge of codebase among developers.
* Make a release (0.1-incubating, mattmann volunteered to RM)

Issues for Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

* None at this time.


--------------------
Mesos

Mesos is a cluster manager that provides resource sharing and isolation
across cluster applications.

Mesos entered incubation on December 23rd, 2010.

Community
* Mesos is actively being used at Twitter, Conviva, UCSF and UC Berkeley.
* We are working on importing the source code to Apache, likely after we
finish merging in a few features that have been developed in the past few
months.

Project development
* Since the last report, we have worked on migrating communication to use
protocol buffers (to allow rolling upgrades), improving fault recovery, and
improving event logging and monitoring

Most important issues to address
* Import source code to Apache SVN
* Move discussion of new features and patches to JIRA
* Put together a first release


--------------------

MRUnit

MRUnit - a library to support unit testing of Hadoop MapReduce jobs.

MRUnit entered incubation on March 8th, 2011.

Community
* Mailing lists have been created
* New committer accounts have been setup
* SVN and git mirror have been created, karma granted for initial committers
* Initial codebase established - clone of current Hadoop mrunit contrib
* JIRA has been initialized for MRUNIT
* Wiki space created on cwiki
* A discussion on when we should cut a first release in ongoing.

Issues before graduation
* Create the MRUnit web site
* Make an incubating release
* Grow the community size and diversity

Licensing and other issues
* none - MRUnit was originally a subproject of Hadoop

--------------------

Olio

DID NOT REPORT.

--------------------
OpenNLP

OpenNLP is a machine learning based toolkit for the processing of natural
language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks, such as tokenization,
sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction,
chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution. These tasks are usually
required to build more advanced text processing services.

OpenNLP entered incubation on 11/23 2010.

We are still working on our first release. All the planed testing in our
test plan is done now,
we will prepare Release Candidate 6 in the next days and start the vote to
release it.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:

* Resolve potential IP issues around releasing training models
* Do a release
* Establish open regression tests


--------------------

Rave

Apache Rave is A new WEb And SOcial Mashup Engine. It will provide an
out-of-the-box as well as an extendible lightweight Java platform to host,
serve and aggregate (Open)Social Gadgets and services through a highly
customizable and Web 2.0 friendly front-end.

Rave just entered incubation on 2011-03-01, this is our first board report.

Mailing lists, SVN and user accounts have been created, Issue tracking
(JIRA) and  continuous integration (Jenkins) have been setup.

All the three initial code donations have been provided and imported in SVN.

Website creation and management is underway, using cms.apache.org, but
currently still in staging only.
Getting the website ready for publishing is high priority.

Branding requirements will be taken care of together with the website.
Discussion on creating and selecting a Rave logo is underway on the
developer mailing list.

The committers voted on and selected Maven as build engine for Rave.
A basic Maven project is committed. Discussion about the new code base and
features to implement has started.
The project code base will be created from scratch, not be based on or
directly incorporate the initial code donations.
Under discussion on the developer list also is choice of development
methodology and style.

Next steps:
* Get the Rave website ready for publishing, select a Rave logo and fulfill
the branding requirements.
* Reach out to the community and build up awareness of Apache Rave.
* Proceed with building up the new code base and work towards a first
(incubator) release.


--------------------

Tashi

2011-April Tashi Incubator Status Report

Tashi has been incubating since September 2008.

The Tashi project aims to build a software infrastructure for cloud
computing
on massive internet-scale datasets (what we call Big Data). The idea is to
build a cluster management system that enables the Big Data that are stored
in
a cluster/data center to be accessed, shared, manipulated, and computed on
by
remote users in a convenient, efficient, and safe manner.

Tashi has previously encompassed just the tools to manage virtual
machines using Xen and KVM, but is gaining the facility to hand out
physical machines as well.

Development activities have included:-
       * Importing bug fixes from CMU deployment
       * Don't display exceptions if failure is expected
       * Validate fields and clean invalid instance entries
       * Eliminating inconsistent state between node and cluster manager
       * Allow hosts to be soft powered off via ACPI
       * Refactor primitive scheduler to be less convoluted (ongoing)
       * Define a stable branch for tested code
       * Example support for dynamic scratch space disks
       * Enforce designated copy-on-write data filesystem for Qemu

The project is still working toward building a larger user and development
community. User groups have been identified in Ireland, Slovenia and Korea,
as well as at Georgia Tech. CMU usage is growing as other groups hear about
the availability of the resource. Intel has restructured its research
division and folded some operations into adjoining academic sites.

Items to be resolved before graduation:
       * A stable branch exists which could be a release candidate, but
         the codebase is large and test hardware is currently in
         short supply. We are confident that the code in the stablefix
         branch will work if running QEMU emulation, Pickle or sqlite
         data storage, primitive scheduler. Xen, other data stores and
         schedulers have not been tested recently.
       * Scratch space integration would be desirable, accounting
         integration is probably a necessity
       * Develop community diversity (Committers currently at Telefonica,
         Google and CMU)


--------------------

VXQuery

DID NOT REPORT.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

Jakarta status report, April 2011. There are no issues requiring board
attention at this time.

 * General
We voted to move Jakarta Regexp to the Apache Attic. The Attic PMC has been
informed and we are in the process of completing the move.

 * Releases
   - None

 * Subproject news

 * BCEL
A few bug fixes were committed and some Bugzilla items raised.

 * BSF
No changes or notable activity this quarter.

 * Cactus
Couple of posts to the user list, otherwise quiet quarter.

 * JCS
No notable activity this quarter.

 * JMeter
Generally active user list. Quite a few fixes and enhancements have been
added to the code.

 * Regexp
Jakarta Regexp is being moved to the Apache Attic. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache JAMES Project

The Apache JAMES Project delivers a rich set of open source modules and
libraries, written in Java, related to internet mail which build into an
advanced enterprise mail server.

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

CURRENT ACTIVITY

Unfortunately the release of the next milestone of Apache JAMES Server did
take a way longer as we all hoped. So we are still in the cycles to finish
the release. Beside this we are currently working on getting all maven
build instructors up-to-date (mainly driven by Felix Knecht) and working
on up date the websites (mainly driven by Eric Charles). The website
update includes the requested changes for the trademark policies.


COMMUNITY

We added two new committers this quarter:
Wojcieck Strzalka
Felix Knecht

The traffic on the mailinglist increased over the last months

RELEASES

We did the following releases during this period:

* Apache JAMES Parent

TRADEMARKS / BRANDING

See *CURRENT ACTIVITY*


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Mahout Project

=== Apache Mahout Status Report: April 2011 ===

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

CURRENT ACTIVITY

The project expects to continue with an 0.5 release around May 2011.
115 issues have been resolved for 0.5, with 7 more planned before the
release:
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true
  &jqlQuery=project+%3D+MAHOUT+AND+fixVersion+%3D+%220.5%22

After that, we believe, will be a 1.0 release, though it is possible the
PMC will elect to issue an interim 0.6 release later in the year.
The focus will change to making the code base stable and 1.0-ready.

NEW MAHOUTS

Apache Mahout added Dmitriy Lyubimov and Shannon Quinn as new committers
in February 2011.

MAHOUT ON THE GO

The community has recorded 12 talks on Mahout since the last release, a
substantial increase in volume and diversity:
https://cwiki.apache.org/MAHOUT/books-tutorials-and-talks.html

MAHOUT IN PRINT

The book "Mahout in Action", published by Manning, has been completed and
will be published in July 2011.

The book "Taming Text", also published by Manning, is also nearing completion
and contains substantial coverage of Mahout and text clustering.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

Maven Board Report - 04-2011
----------------------------

* General Information

The PMC is discussing operational and management concerns regarding Maven
Central directly with Sonatype.

* New PMC Members

* New Committers

* Releases

  * Apache Maven 3.0.3 (2011-03-03)

* Plugins

  * Maven Dependency Plugin 2.2 (2011-02-22)
  * Maven Remote Resources Plugin 1.2 (2011-02-27)
  * Maven Resources Plugin 2.5 (2011-02-27)
  * Maven Assembly Plugin 2.2.1 (2011-02-27)
  * Maven Surefire Plugin 2.8 (2011-03-13)
  * Maven GPG Plugin 1.2 (2011-03-24)
  * Maven ACR Plugin 1.0 (2011-03-31)
  * Maven Surefire Plugin 2.8.1 (2011-04-16)

* Other

  * Apache Parent 9 (2011-02-15)
  * Maven Parent 19 (2011-02-15)
  * Maven Shared Components 16 (2011-02-15)
  * Maven Dependency Analyzer 1.2 (2011-02-22)
  * Maven Filtering 1.0 (2011-02-24)
  * Maven SCM 1.5 (2011-03-31)
  * Maven ANT Tasks 2.1.2 (2011-04-01)
  * Maven ANT Tasks 2.1.3 (2011-04-17)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Releases
--------

* A vote is currently ongoing to release MINA 2.0.3, a bug fix release.
* The Vysper subproject released 0.7.

Community
---------

* Sebastian Bazley (sebb) was voted in as a committer due to his 
    contributions to the FtpServer subproject.
* No changes to the PMC membership.

Development
-----------

* For MINA, the community has been active with several bugs being
    ironed out in the 2.0 branch. Development is also ongoing for a 
    future first release on the 3.0 branch.  
* Vysper has gotten several significant new features, such as support
    for server to server communication, service administration, SOCKS5 
    bytestreams and more.
* FtpServer and SSHD development has picked up from the last quarter 
    with a large number of feature requests and bugs being reported and fixed.

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

= Summary =
 * Community changes
 * New releases
 * Discussions

= Community =
 * New Committers:
  * Andy Schwartz
 * New PMC Members:
  * Mark Struberg
  * Michael Freedman (ACK is pending)
 * New PMC Chair: Gerhard Petracek

= Releases =
 * MyFaces (sub) projects with new releases since the last report:
  * MyFaces POM-10
  * MyFaces checktyle-rules-2
  * MyFaces Core 1.1.9
  * MyFaces Core 1.2.10
  * MyFaces Core 2.0.4
  * MyFaces Builder Plugin 1.0.9
  * MyFaces Trinidad 1.0.13
  * MyFaces Trinidad 1.2.14
  * MyFaces Trinidad 2.0.0-beta-1
  * MyFaces Trinidad 2.0.0-beta-2
  * MyFaces Trinidad Maven plugins 1.2.13
  * MyFaces Trinidad Maven plugins 2.0.3
  * MyFaces Trinidad Maven plugins 2.0.4
  * MyFaces Trinidad Maven Plugins 2.0.5
  * MyFaces Extensions CDI (CODI) 0.9.2
  * MyFaces Extensions CDI (CODI) 0.9.3
  * MyFaces Test 1.0.1
  * MyFaces Test 1.0.2
  * MyFaces Portlet Bridge TCK 1.0.0
  * MyFaces Portlet Bridge TCK 2.0.0
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.33
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.34
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.35
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.5.0-alpha-2

= Milestones =
 * Apache MyFaces Demo on CouldBees

= Discussions =
 * Ideas for Google Summer of Code

= New Projects/Versions =
 * Integration of MyFaces HTML5 Component library (result of GSoC 2010)
 * Implementation of JSF 2.1

= Project Branding =
 * Not started yet (planned for Q2).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Nutch Project

Report for the Apache Nutch project: April 2011

There are no board level issues at this point in time.

Releases:

Work still progresses on the 2.0 Nutch branch which integrates 
Gora to provide backend independence, allowing Nutch to store 
its content in HBase, MySQL, HSQL and Cassandra. We are currently 
focusing on the testing phase, and trying to benchmark 2.0 compared 
to the 1.x series.

A number of improvements from 2.0 have been backported into 1.3.

Chris Mattmann has volunteered to RM the 1.3 release and hopefully 
will cut an RC within the next few weeks.

Apache Gora made its first incubating release (0.1-incubating) and 
we are working to upgrade Nutch to use the released version of Gora.

Community:

The Nutch PMC added Alexis Detreglode as a Committer and PMC member.

Mailing list activity is steady, alternating between folks using 
Nutch 1.x, and those bleeding-edgers who are using the 2.0 trunk.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache ODE Project

== Status ==
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

== Release ==
Apache ODE 1.3.5 has been released in February. It fixed about 30 bugs,
including some severe performance issues.

== Development ==
We had a developer's conference call discussing all outstanding topics,
including community issues, OModel & JPA refactorings, Buildr vs. Maven,
Web site (Confluence vs. Apache CMS), which was a good opportunity to
discuss all ongoing developments.

== Community ==
Gary Brown has been voted in as a committer.

== Project Branding Board Report Checklist ==
  * Project Website Basics : homepage is project.apache.org ✔
  * Project Naming And Descriptions : use proper Apache forms, describe
product, etc. ✔
  * Website Navigation Links : navbar links included, link to
www.apache.org included ✘
  * Trademark Attributions : attribution for all ASF marks included in
footers, etc. ✘
  * Logos and Graphics : include TM, use consistent product logo on your
site ✘
  * Project Metadata : DOAP file checked in and up to date ✔


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache OpenEJB Project

STABLE

Some branching/version changes were made based on user feedback.
Specifically, many users strongly wanted the JPA 2.0 support in the trunk but
were getting frustrated with constant trunk change.  The 3.1.x codebase is
still the primary branch being actively released and supported, yet many
users appear to be using trunk primarily for the JPA 2.0 support. To address
this demand and get people off of using snapshots, the trunk code was
relabeled from 3.2-SNAPSHOT to 4.0.0-SNAPSHOT and a new 3.2 branch was
created from the very stable 3.1.x branch.  The in-high-demand JPA 2.0
support was then merged from trunk into the new 3.2 branch, is now under test
and should be released soon.  The 3.2 release will be very popular and
treating trunk as a new major version is more "honest" given the changes and
goals.

TRUNK

The trunk code, aimed at Java EE 6 Web Profile certification, has begun to
stabilize in many respects.  To aid in getting consistent TCK numbers, I've
setup a flavor of the Geronimo distributed TCK setup on my Amazon EC2 account
as an experiment.  Not strictly required as it just runs the TCK using the
same commands an individual would use, but given the small size of the
community and the fact that most active committers have day jobs, it has
potential as a time-saver that could be really cheap for a run or two a week.

A significant push was made to round out some sharp corners.  The code seems
to be in decent enough shape for its first release, likely an alpha or beta.
Significant changes have been made recently with regard to OpenEJB-created
features that were added to the Java EE 6 set of specifications, but in a way
that was slightly different than the way OpenEJB had been doing it.
Specifically processing EJBs inside of .war files and processing ejb modules
in a plain Java SE vm with an embedded EJB container.  Significant other
changes and additions include slight overhaul of the Tomcat integration code
(TomEE) and experimental Meta Annotation support.

COMMUNITY

With regards to community activity, Jonathan Gallimore and myself spoke in
two sessions at JAX London 2011, last week.  The first on EJB in general and
the second on the TomEE server (formerly called just "OpenEJB/Tomcat").  Both
session were well attended and met with a good deal of excitement. The "EJB"
talk crowed stayed a full twenty minutes after into the lunch hour before we
finally said "ok, enough, go eat lunch!" and cut the session "short."

The second annual OpenEJB Get-Together is currently underway in Tours,
France.  A big push to encourage people to show up and hack was made on the
mailing list, blog and twitter over the last couple months.  Decent group of
three committers and two contributors showed up with potentially another one
or two later in the week.  First day hacking, today, has pretty much been of
the "how things work" variety and some notes on "needs" and "wants" that
shook out of that has been posted to the list.  As usual the "no offline
decisions" rule applies, but further the goal is to post as much as possible
for the benefit of those that really wanted to attend but were unable.  Maybe
at some future year we can grow it to barcamp status.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache OpenJPA Project

There are no items requiring board attention at this time.

Highlights

OpenJPA 2.1.0 was released in February 2011.

Trademark and branding policy

Thanks to Ravi Palacherla who volunteered to migrate our web presence
from Confluence to Apache CMS. The migration is underway. The conversion
to .mdtext and then to .html worked well for most of the pages.
But there are few confluence macros that are not converted to mdtext.
These are being converted manually. The trademarks will be updated as
part of the conversion process.

Community

No new committers nor new PMC members were added this quarter.

Mailing lists continue to be very active, with close to 230 messages 
per month on the dev alias and approximately 150 messages per
month on the users alias.

OpenJPA email subscriptions are stable at approximately 140 subscribers to dev
and 230 to users.

We accepted a code donation from a project that started at codehaus for
openjpa-maven-plugin.

We are working with a Google Summer of Code proposer on a project to improve 
the xml metadata handling of overrides of annotations.

Governance

We continue to monitor contributors for possible committers and committers
for PMC members.

Releases

OpenJPA 2.1.0 was released in February 2011.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache PDFBox Project

Apache PDFBox is an open source Java PDF library for working with PDF documents.

General Comments
----------------

There are no issues that require Board attention.

Community
---------

There is a steady stream of contributions and bug reports from the
community. No new committers or PMC Members were added.

Releases
--------

- PDFBox 1.5.0 was released on March 3, 2011


Development:
------------

The development on the next release just started. We are currently
working on

- a signing interface (thanks to Thomas Chojecki for
the contribution and to Adam Nichols for the effort to integrate the
code)
- a better true type font handling to improve rendering and pdf creation


Project Branding Requirements
-----------------------------

Done
====
- Project Website Basics
- Project Metadata
- Other Trademark Guidelines

In progress
===========
- Project Naming And Descriptions
- Trademark Attributions
- Website Navigation Links
- Logos And Graphics
- Powered By... Logos


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache River Project

Apache River is a distributed computing architecture, based on the JSK
Starter Kit Source code donated by Sun Microsystems, for the Jini
Specification.

Releases:
First TLP release still hasn't been cut.  This is due to a user raising 
concerns about a newly discovered (or introduced?) bug with a specific JDK 
on a specific OS.

Progress:
There has been some discussion on dev@.  Some progress has been made 
researching one or two areas of specific interest regarding new River
features.  This will be the last of our monthly reports, we expect to
change to quarterly reports from now on.

Community:
No board issues at this time.

Issues:
No board issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Shindig Project

Apache Shindig is an Opensocial Reference implementation in wide use by
both social networks and enterprise software.

The Shindig PMC has no issues that require board attention

COMMUNITY
We voted in three committers this quarter.  All were active contributors and
continue to contribute patches and help out on the mailing lists.

Codebase remains in active development with contributions from
many individuals.

Shindig continues to be used as the testbed for many upcoming features of
OpenSocial 2.0.

RELEASES
* 3.0.0-beta1 release built, but not released.
* 3.0.0 release now planned for Q2, 2011.

BRANDING
No work this quarter on the Shindig website or branding guidelines.
More definitely needs to be done.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

The current Chair, Martin Cooper, has elected to step down. A resolution
has been presented for this board meeting wherein the Struts PMC
recommends René Gielen as the new Chair.

This quarter saw no new Struts releases. A vote for a Struts 2.2.3
release is pending at this time, and roadmap discussions are ongoing.
There was no activity on Struts 1 this quarter.

Johannes Geppert (jogep) has joined us as a new committer. There
have been no changes to the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Tapestry is a Java language, component-based web framework.

Tapestry 5.2

We've released a maintenance release, 5.2.5, with minor fixes,
including a change that makes Tapestry applications easier to debug.

Tapestry 5.3

Still in alpha; with partial conversion from a Maven build to a Gradle build,
the addition of a JPA integration library, numerous small changes,
and the first steps in removing the dependency on Javassist (instead, using
a wrapper around the ASM bytecode framework).

Community

We've elected two new committers: Kalle Korhonen and Francois Facon.

We are matching mentors to GSOC (Google Summer Of Code) interns; we have
three proposals.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

Progress continues on Rivet thanks to Massimo's hard work.  Websh is
not really under development, but Ronnie responds promptly to any and
all help requests.  Things are ticking over more or less as they
always have, in other words.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Thrift Project

Thrift is a framework for providing cross-platform RPC and serialization.

Community
We have received a fair number of contributions from new contributors. We
have voted in one new committer, Jake Farrell, who has invested a lot of
time in helping us get Thrift published via Maven.

Releases
We completed the 0.6 release and have loosely proposed starting on the 0.7
release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Tika Project

Releases
=========================
We made our 0.9 release [1] in February 2011. This fix included some 
critical bug fixes including a fix that re-enabled extraction of metadata 
from Scientific Data File Formats (HDF+NetCDF) from the command line. In 
addition, the release included a patch [2] that significantly reduced the 
number of pulled in dependencies having to do with NetCDF. Support for 
parsing via external forking was also added [3]. See [4] for a full list of 
changes.

Progress towards the 1.0 release continues and we hope to roll a 1.0 in the 
Q2/Q3 timeframe.

Community
=========================

We added Oleg Tikhonov to the Tika PMC in April 2011 [5].

Mailing list activity on user@ and dev@ remain steady (near the ~100 message 
range).

Tika In Action
==========================
Chris Mattmann and Jukka Zitting are writing a Manning book called "Tika in
Action", and it is progressing steadily. We completed a full draft of the 
entire book, and Chapters 9 and 10 are now available on the MEAP page [6]. 
The book is set to be published in the Q2/Q3 timeframe of 2011.

[1] http://s.apache.org/1lE
[2] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-596
[3] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-556
[4] http://www.apache.org/dist/tika/CHANGES-0.9.txt
[5] http://s.apache.org/Jur
[6] http://www.manning.com/mattmann/


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

It's been another quiet period for Apache Tiles. Some development has happened
on our "next generation" work that is underway in the sandbox, but there have 
not been any releases or community changes.

Antonio made all the changes necessary to implement as much of the branding 
requirements as he could. The only remaining piece is to check in a DOAP file. I
had intended to get that done before filing this report, but it did not 
happen. My availability has been even less than usual the last two or three
months, but I will try to get this work completed as soon as possible.

We're still seeing a decent level of activity on the user list, which tells us
that there is still an active community of users. We continue to struggle to
generate growth in our development community. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache Traffic Server Project

Apache Traffic Server is an HTTP proxy server and cache, similar to
Squid in functionality and features.


Issues
======

There are no issues that needs the boards attention.


Community
=========

Activity in the community has slowed down a little bit, but a couple
of new contributors have emerged. Overall, the community seems healthy
and we expect to add a few new committers in the next quarter.

Documentation efforts are well underway, migrating all our docs (and
eventually site) to use the new Apache CMS.

A presentation on Apache Traffic Server was accepted to the "Russian
Internet Technologies" conference, to be held in April 2011.


Releases
========

The community has produced two releases since our last report:

    v2.1.6 - Major plugin API improvements and updates
    v2.1.7 - Bug fixes primarily to improve cache efficiency

The v2.1.6 once again breaks compatibility with previous releases, as
is our intended goal with the v2.1.x release cycle. v3.0 will be the
next stable release, where existing APIs and ABIs are frozen.


Branding
========

We believe the project has completed the Branding requirements, the
final piece was to add a DOAP file (done).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Releases
--------
* XmlSchema 2.0 (2/11)
* Woden 1.0M9 (2/14)
* WSS4J 1.6.0 (4/15)
* Neethi 2.0.5 (4/11)
* Neethi 3.0.0 (4/11)

General news
------------

* Lots of good releases this quarter, with slow but steady activity on
  the mailing lists.

* The chair has been slammed with work and other commitments, and has
  not as yet followed through on last report's hopes re: finishing the
  mothballing of a couple of projects.  Still on the docket.

Subprojects
-----------

Current subproject descriptions follow, but no particular subproject
news below means nothing specifically requiring the board's attention
this quarter beyond the above.

* Apache Woden

Woden is an open source Java implementation of the W3C WSDL 2.0
specification.

* JaxMe2

JaxMe 2 is an open source implementation of JAXB, the specification
for Java/XML binding.

* Apache Axiom

Apache Axiom is a StAX-based, XML Infoset compliant object model which
supports on-demand building of the object tree.

* Apache XmlSchema

Apache XmlSchema is a Java object model for manipulating and utilizing
XML Schema.

* Apache Neethi

Apache Neethi is a Java implementation of the WS-Policy
specifications.

Two new releases this quarter, one on the "old style" 2.0 branch and
the other with a revamped API which, among other things, removes the
hard dependency on Axiom.

* Apache WS-Commons

Apache WS-Commons is a collection of projects that are primarily used
as parts of various WS projects but useful even outside the WS space.
WS-Commons houses: - various smaller projects such as tcpmon.

Still need to wrap WS-Commons up and promote the contents (really just
TCPMon).

* Apache XML-RPC

Apache XML-RPC is a Java implementation of XML-RPC, a popular protocol
that uses XML over HTTP to implement remote procedure calls.

* Apache WSS4J

Apache WSS4J is a Java implementation of the OASIS Web Services
Security (WS-Security) from OASIS Web Services Security TC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AK: Proposed FY 2011-2012 Budget

ASF budget for FY May 1 2011 - Apr 30 2012
-------------------

INCOME (projected)

== Interest ==
Interest income              :   $3,600.00 (+12.5%)

== Public donations ==
  One-Time (by chk, etc)     :   $2,400.00
  PayPal ($2000 x 12 mos)    :  $24,000.00
  Car Program LLC            :   $1,600.00
    ($400 x 4 contributions)
Category total               :  $28,000.00

== Sponsorship Program ==

  Platinum sponsors (4)      : $400,000.00 (+33%)
  Gold sponsors (3)          : $120,000.00
  Silver sponsors (3)        :  $60,000.00
  Bronze sponsors (4)        :  $20,000.00

Category total               : $600,000.00 (+20%)

== Program Income ==
Google Summer of Code        :  $10,000.00

Category Total               :  $10,000.00

== Unrelated Business Income (royalty, licenses, etc.) ==

Category Total               :       $0.00

Income Category Summaries:

  Interest Income           : $  3,600.00
  One-time donations        : $ 28,000.00
  Sponsorship Program       : $600,000.00
  Program Income            : $ 10,000.00
  Unrelated Business Income : $      0.00

INCOME Total                : $641,600.00 (+18.5%)

EXPENSES

== Fundraising Overhead ==

PayPal (@ ~ 3.74%)              :    $100.00
Car Program LLC                 :     $ 0.00

Category Total                  :    $100.00

== Administrative ==

Office Supplies (Sec'y)         :      $0.00
Office Supplies (Treasurer)     :    $500.00
President Discretionary         :  $5,000.00
Exec. Assistant (PT)            : $30,000.00

Category Total                  : $35,500.00 (+545%)

== Infrastructure ==

Staffing                        :$212,624.00
    System Admin          (FT)  : $86,904.00*
    System Admin          (FT)  : $79,560.00*
    System Admin          (PT)  : $39,000.00
    Bonus Pool                  :  $7,160.00 (4260/3900)

Hosting                         :  $8,216.00
    Cloud                       :  $2,000.00
    OSU OSL (OR, USA)           :      $0.00
    SURFnet (AMS, NL)           :      $0.00
    Traci.net (FL, USA)         :  $6,216.00

Hardware                        : $94,000.00
    Replacement                 : $45,000.00
    Expansion                   : $20,000.00
    Build farm                  : $24,000.00
    Disks/RAM                   :   5,000.00

Service contracts               :  $7,000.00
    Dell                           $4,500.00
    Silicon Mechanics              $1,500.00
    Sun                              $500.00
    Other                            $500.00

Misc                            :  $1,800.00
    Spamhaus RBL                :    $300.00
    SSL / DNS renewals          :    $700.00
    3rd Party Thank yous        :    $800.00

Travel                          : $17,400.00
    3 Staff+VP @ ACNA2011       : $12,000.00
    1 infra mtg                 :  $5,000.00
    ACNA2011 food 1 mtg         :    $400.00

Category Total                  :$341,040.00 (+28%)


== Publicity ==

Outside PR Services             : $75,000.00 (+25%)
Press releases (prepaid)        : $10,000.00
Travel                          : $15,000.00
Consultant Expenses             :  $6,000.00
Conference Participation        :  $4,000.00
Conference Support              :  $5,000.00
Conference Signage              :  $3,500.00
Collateral Printing             :  $2,500.00
Contact Database                :  $2,500.00
Clipping Service                :  $5,000.00

Category Total                  :$128,500.00 (+11%)

== ConCom ==

Local events & hackathons       : $50,000.00
Travel                          :  $5,000.00
Discretionary                   :  $5,000.00

Category Total                  : $60,000.00 (-33%)

== Travel Assistance Committee ==

Sponsored Attendees (5 events)  : $40,000.00

Category Total                  : $40,000.00 (-39%)

== Legal ==

Discretionary                   :  $2,500.00

Category Total                  :  $2,500.00

== Brand Management ==

Register key trademarks         :  $1,950.00
Register project marks          :  $1,300.00

Category Total                  :  $3,250.00

== Board ==

Chairman Discretionary          :  $5,000.00
Conference Calls                :      $0.00

Category Total                  :  $5,000.00

== Banking Fees ==

Checks                          :  $  150.00
Safe-deposit box                :  $   75.00
Monthly fees                    :  $1,000.00
Lockbox                         :  $2,500.00

Category Total                  :  $3,725.00

== Treasury Services ==

Tax Filing                      :  $2,000.00
Online services                 :  $1,500.00

Category Total                  :  $3,500.00

== Licenses / Insurance ==

Corp. Service Co. (DE Agent)    :  $  299.00
D&O Insurance                   :  $1,500.00
Property/Asset Insurance        :  $1,000.00
Misc. Insurance                 :  $2,201.00

Category Total                  :  $5,000.00

== Shipping == 

Federal Express / Courier       :    $500.00

Category Total                  :    $500.00

== Misc. ==

Category Total                  :      $0.00

Expense Category Summaries:
  Fundraising overhead          :$    100.00
  Administrative                :$ 35,500.00
  Infrastructure                :$341,040.00
  Publicity                     :$128,500.00
  ConCom                        :$ 60,000.00
  Travel Assistance             :$ 40,000.00
  Legal                         :$  2,500.00
  Brand Management              :$  3,250.00
  Board                         :$  5,000.00
  Banking Fees                  :$  3,725.00
  Accounting Services           :$  3,500.00
  Licenses / Insurance          :$  5,000.00
  Shipping                      :$    500.00
  Misc                          :$      0.00
Expense Total                   :$611,615.00

=== SUMMARY ===

Income Total                 : $641,600.00
Expense Total                : $628,615.00

Net Total                    : $ 12,985.00

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the April 20, 2011 board meeting.

