
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                   Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             01 June 1999


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700. The meeting was
    called to order at 10:04am.

 2. Roll Call

    Roll was called at 10:05am. In attendence were:

      Ken Coar
      Roy T. Fielding
      Ben Hyde
      Jim Jagielski
      Ben Laurie
      Randy Terbush
      Dirk-Willem van Gulik

      Guests: Drew Wright (counsel)

    Sameer joined at 10:37am

 3. Minutes

    By general consent, the minutes available at
       apachegroup-site/records/minutes/1999/board_minutes_1999_05_13.txt.NYA
    were approved. The minutes were renamed as
       apachegroup-site/records/minutes/1999/board_minutes_1999_05_13.txt

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]

      Since Brian was not available, there was no report

    B. Treasurer  [Randy]

      Randy had no new information to report.

    C. Secretary  [Jim]

      Jim reported that he had received the required forms from all
      ASF members. This enables ASF to finalize their incorporation
      process.

      At present, Jim had not yet received any of the asset
      transfer forms, required for the transfer of the "feather"
      logo and the various Apache domain names to ASF. Jim reported
      that he had an ASF minute binder but, at present, had not obtained
      the corporate seal. Drew suggested a possible vendor to obtain
      the seal.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Conferences Committee  [Ken]

      Ken re-reported that negotiations with LKE had resulted in a
      stand-still and that both parties agreed to terminate negotiations
      regarding ApacheCon 2000. Ken had sent out RFPs to 3 possible
      conference coordination companies; 2 of which had declined to
      bid on the RFP. At the present time, Ken had not yet received
      word from the 3rd.

      Ken reported that he greatly desired that the ApacheCon domain
      be moved to ASF's "taz" server.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Effective date of incorporation

      By general consent, it was agreed that the official effective
      date of incorporation for the Apache Software Foundation is
      to be set as June 1, 1999.

    B. Budget discussion

       1) Incorporation expenses [Roy $419.67, Jim ??]

         Discussion was held concerning how those who had incured
         expenses would be reimbursed. The original concept was that
         IBM would reimburse people for the incorporation expenses
         and ASF would subsequantly reimburse IBM. Roy expressed his
         dissatisfaction with this approach since it required that
         he give his Social Security Number (SSN) to IBM. It was
         generally agreed that instead, ASF would reimburse people
         directly. This still requires that ASF obtain people's
         SSN, but being a smaller company, it will be easier to
         control the use and distribution of this information.
         All receipts and invoices are to be sent to Randy.

       2) General plan

         See discussion for item 6-B-3, directly below.

       3) Sources for initial funds

         The board discussed several issues regarding the raising of
         funds and the subsequant use of those fund for ASF. Roy asked
         the generic question "Are there any things right now that we
         could use funds for." Ken reported that a serious shortcoming
         regarding ApacheCon was our lack of monetary resources. Having
         funds available would give ASF more freedom and flexibility
         regarding our options in coordinating ApacheCon.

         Some noteworthy items that board members could envision
         funds being used for included:

            o Funds for ASF Meetings (annual or more frequent)
            o Infrastructure
            o Web Design fees
            o Possible payment for code related services
            o Apache sponsered user group

         There was concern that we wanted to tread very carefully, to avoid
         the appearance that ASF's prime goal was to "raise money." It
         was noted that ASF would be looked at very closely for signs
         of "selling out" and that ASF should tend towards conservatism
         in this area to avoid any concerns in the user community.

         Discussion was held regarding ASF becoming either an Amazon.com
         or Barnes&Noble "associate", where links to ASF related publications
         on these 2 vendors would be located on the ASF site. Publications
         ordered via these links result in ASF getting a percentage of
         the purchase price. Ken agreed to look into these programs.

         The general agreement was that a discussion would be started
         on apache-core regarding (1) what avenues would people prefer
         as far as raising funds for ASF, and (2) how would those
         funds best be used. Ben Hyde agreed to coordinate this effort.

         Regarding this effort, the following Action Items were assigned:

          Brian:
           Brian was given the AI to write up a short description of
           what the ASF is, why we exist, our guidelines for raising
           and using funds, and how people can donate.

          Roy:
           Roy was given the AI to prepare a Press Release regarding the
           incorporation of ASF. It was agreed that notice of the incorporation
           would not be made public until the PR was available. June 27, 1999
           is the tentative date for this release.

          Randy:
           Randy was given the AI to determine the actual fiscal and
           banking procedure detailing how people, companies and organizations
           could donate funds to ASF, including the use of credit card
           payments.

         It was specifically stated that we need to ensure that it is
         well known and understood that ASF is not, at present, a 501 C3
         non-profit organization and that donations are thus not tax
         deductable. ASF needs to wait at least 1 year before it can
         gain 501 C3 status.

 7. Unfinished Business

   None

 8. New Business

   The "incorporation" of other projects under the ASF umbrella was
   discussed, motivated by an Email by Rasmus Lendorf concerning his
   desire to investigate the possibility of having the PHP project
   "folded" under the ASF structure. This is in keeping with the
   guidelines and vision of ASF.

   Roy was given the Action Item to generate the formal procedure
   by which projects would be added under the ASF. Due to his close
   proximity to Rasmus, Ken agreed to discuss the matter with Rasmus
   and get a list of Rasmus' main desires and motivation for adding
   mod_php to ASF, enabling us to better provide the exact functionality
   and capability prospective ASF projects would desire.


 9. Announcements

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned  at 11:36am. The next scheduled meeting would
    be coordinated offline via EMail.
