                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                          February 21, 2018


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:30am Pacific and began at 10:33
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.

    Other Time Zones: https://timeanddate.com/s/3eez

    The meeting was held via teleconference, hosted by Doug Cutting
    and Cloudera.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

      Rich Bowen
      Shane Curcuru
      Bertrand Delacretaz
      Jim Jagielski
      Chris Mattmann
      Brett Porter
      Phil Steitz
      Mark Thomas

    Directors Absent:

      Ted Dunning

    Executive Officers Present:

      Ross Gardler
      Kevin A. McGrail
      Sam Ruby
      Craig L Russell

    Executive Officers Absent:

      Ulrich Stärk

    Guests:

      Daniel Gruno
      Danny Angus
      Greg Stein
      Jim Perrin - (from the CentOS Board)
      Mark Struberg
      Michael Mior
      Myrle Krantz
      Pierre Smits
      Tom Pappas

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Published minutes can be found at:

        http://www.apache.org/foundation/board/calendar.html

    A. The meeting of January 17, 2018

       See: board_minutes_2018_01_17.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Phil]

       Over the last month, I began preparations for the Members Meeting
       (date to be confirmed at today's meeting) and worked with the other
       Officers and Directors preparing the 5-year strategic plan which we
       will review at today's meeting. Many thanks to all who contributed and
       commented on drafts of the document.

       Here is a summary of comments made on this month's project reports.

       The Http Server project report was, once again, a great example of
       what we like to see in project reports.  The community health section
       uses data to thoughtfully assess the state of the community.  Instead
       of just presenting statistics, the report includes discussion of the
       pattern of contributions and inferences made by the PMC about what
       they might do to encourage more people to contribute.

       One PMC was commended for keeping discussion that can be public on the
       public dev list.  Specifically, we saw and appreciated some instances
       of moving a discussion that starts on private@ but can be public moved
       to dev@.

       Two PMCs were encouraged to limit discussion of or influence by
       commercial vendors in their reports.  What vendors do with our
       products is their business. We certainly encourage all manner of use
       and onward distribution; but project reports (and decisions) should
       focus on project communities and their activities.

       The usual question about activity level was asked of a couple of PMCs.
       This usually takes the form of "Are there 3 active PMC members in the
       community?"  We ask this question because it takes 3 binding +1 votes
       to make a release.

       In two cases, we noted the long time since the last release from a
       project and asked how the community could remain engaged without
       release activity.

    B. President [Sam]

       A very busy month in terms of both budget and personnel activities.

       Issues requiring attention of the board
       -----

       FY23 budget.  My plans are to collect a FY19 budget in March for
       approval by the board in April, so that we have a budget at the
       start of the fiscal year.

       Budget
       ------

       We continue to exceed income targets and keep under the allowable
       expense targets.  Net income for this month is an additional $222K over
       plan.

       The FY23 projections have been revised as follows: the expected cash on
       hand at the end of FY18 has been revised upwards based on Virtual's
       current projections and assuming that we are able to convert the recent
       Pineapple Fund BTC donation to $600K USD; and the "G&A" expenses have
       been corrected to reflect that the EA position has been eliminated
       rather than a linear ramping down of this expense.

       Note that everything about this plan is conservative.  The projection
       of cash on hand at the end of the year is conservative.  Neither the
       FY18 numbers nor the FY23 numbers have been adjusted based on actuals
       observed this year.  We should be able to convert the BTC donation to
       more than $600K.  

       Presuming that we stay vigilant, this should reduce our need to
       aggressively look for areas to cut.

       Areas of note in the proposed budget:

        * Both Fundraising and Brand Management have brought forward requests
          to expand professional support for these areas within the next five
          years.  I'll note that approval of this plan is no more and no less
          than a green light to create concrete proposals for consideration in
          future 1 year budgets.

        * The proposal was to drop TAC budget in FY23.  That proposal was made
          at a time when the frequency and style of future conferences was in
          question.  It is not necessary to revisit that now, we can revisit
          as a part of the one year FY19 and five year FY24 budget processes.
          At a minimum, the expectation is that the board will approve the
          expenses for ACNA in Montreal for FY19.
         
       Conferences/TAC
       -------

       Lots of great progress with respect to Conferences: signed contract,
       updated web site, new roadshow events.  This led to a request to
       reactivate the TAC committee.

       After verifying that Melissa understandably doesn't have time to
       continue the role of VP, TAC; I accepted Gavin's offer to reprise
       his role.  For the past few weeks he has been acting VP, TAC; and
       as of today, I'm making that official.  He's certainly hit the job
       running.

       Brand Management
       --------

       I spent considerable time with Chris and Shane (and to a lesser extent
       with Mark and Sally) to see if we could come up with an approach that
       everybody could agree on.  At times it appeared within grasp.  At times
       it appeared elusive.  At a minimum, I believe that we made substantial
       progress.

       I'm going to optimistically claim that we have rough consensus on the
       following two points:

         * There is value in educating PMCs on their need to police brands
           that are associated with their projects.

         * There is value in registering marks on behalf of PMCs that have
           demonstrated that they are willing and able to defend their brand.
           
       Neither of these are absolute.  For example, it makes sense to limit
       the set of geographic regions in which we register a mark.  While in
       theory there may be disagreements about what the limits are, in
       practice there has been no issues with how any of the recent actual
       requests by PMCs have been handled.

       Of those willing to volunteer for this effort, there is a general
       sentiment that the amount of work required exceeds the amount that can
       be expected from volunteers.  Assuming something resembling the FY23
       budget proposal is accepted by the board, be on the lookout for a
       proposal along the lines that Sally has been patiently shepherding to
       appear alongside the FY19 budget requests.

       Fundraising
       --------

       A change in his employment situation has raised the question as to
       whether Kevin can continue to devote the amount of time and attention
       that he has to date on Fundraising.  This effort already is being
       supported by HALO Worldwide and Virtual, Inc.  Just a heads up: we may
       need to rely more heavily on one or both of these (or perhaps somebody
       else entirely) in the future.  Again, at the moment this is only a
       heads up with respect to the possibility of a proposal to be considered
       as a part of the FY19 budget process.

       Infrastructure
       --------------

       The infrastructure team has identified a general issue with
       projects whose demand for infrastructure services go well
       beyond what other projects need, and one concrete case for
       specific consideration.  Input on how to handle these needs
       would be appreciated.

       Other
       -----

       An individual raised what they consider to be a CoC violation with
       respect to one of the infrastructure team's bots that update JIRA when
       a pull request comes in on one of our repositories.  I consulted with
       Legal Affairs early in this process and now (with Chris's concurrence)
       have referred the matter to them.

       Additionally, please see Attachments 1 through 6.


       Effective immediately, Mark Thomas was appointed chair of the
       Brand Management PMC. Thanks to Shane Curcuru for his service.

    C. Treasurer [Ulrich]

       Virtual Report:

       Here is a summary of the Foundation’s performance for the first Nine
       months of FY18.

       Cash on Jan 31st, 2018 was $1,793.4K, which is up $130.4K from last
       month’s ending balance (Dec 17) of $1,663K.   The Jan 2018 cash
       balance is up $288.2K from the Jan 2017 month end balance of
       $1,505.2K.  The Jan 2018 ending cash balance of $1,793.4K represents
       a cash reserve of 16.2 months based on the FY18 conservative Cash
       forecast average monthly spending of $110.8K/month. The ASF reserve
       continues to be very healthy for an organization of ASF’ s size, with
       a conservative FY18 YE estimate of 15.9 months of Operating cash
       reserve.

       Regarding the YTD Cash P&L, we continue to have a very strong and
       favorable showing against our FY18 budget at this of point of the FY,
       however as I will continue to mention, because we are on a cash
       basis, the timing of Sponsor payments received and Payables released
       plays a big part in how well we perform financially month to month
       and year over year.  This month we were over the FY 18 budget for
       Revenue (Payments were received this month from Google, IBM, ARM,
       Horton Works and Cloud soft)  and the Foundation was under the FY18
       budget in Expenses.  As I have mentioned in previous months we want
       to continue to focus on our new sponsors but we also cannot take away
       any focus from our existing sponsors as that was how the FY18 budget
       was constructed.  The Fundraising team continues to do an excellent
       job in both areas, servicing both new and existing Sponsors.  With
       total actual Revenue, as of Jan 31st, 2018, of $1,211.6K ( up $234.5K
       from Dec 2017), we are 98.8% of the way to our Total Revenue budget
       of $1,226.5K for FY18, while only 75% of the way through FY18. 
       Regarding Sponsor revenue, we have received in the first nine months
       of FY18, $1,125.6K, ( up $226K from Dec 2017) which has us at 103.8%
       exceeding the budgeted Sponsor revenue goal of $1,084K for FY18. 
       This is a great accomplishment as we still have 3 months left of FY
       18 and we have exceeded our Sponsorship goal by $41.6K.  As for the
       remaining revenue categories, we have received $86.1K against a total
       budget of $139K or 61.9% of our FY budget with 3 months left of FY18.

       YTD expenses, through Jan 31st, 2018 are under budget by $96.3K. 
       Most depts. are either under budget or at budget. We will continue to
       monitor the actual vs budget as we move through the remaining 3
       months of FY18.  As we finish up Feb 2018, I will be in contact with
       the dept. heads, to better forecast the final months of FY18.

       Regarding Net Income (NI), YTD for FY18 the ASF finished with a
       positive $270.1K NI vs a budgeted negative <$363.2K> NI or $633.3K
       ahead of the FY 18 Budget for Net Income nine months into the FY. 
       With the current conservative forecasted revenue, and expenses for
       the remainder of FY 18, we are now estimating, at the Fiscal year
       end, a positive $243.9K NI vs a budgeted NI loss of -$167.8K or about
       a $411.7K better NI than the FY18 budget.  This is attributable to a
       combination of additional revenue and lower than budgeted expenses
       for FY18 ($347.4K more in revenue and $64.3K in lower expenses based
       on our conservative forecast).  I would also like to point out that
       YTD 18 NI vs YTD 17 NI we are $576.8K ahead in Revenue while Expenses
       were only $28K ahead year over year, for a $548.8K increase in NI
       year over year ($270.1K positive NI in FY18 vs <-$278.7K> NI in FY
       17).  Again, I want to congratulate the entire Foundation on these
       very positive Operating results now that we are nine months through
       FY 18, and coming down the home stretch for FY18.  It does truly take
       a team effort to achieve these types of results.  Now that we see
       what can be achieved by our efforts, we do need to continue to keep
       these efforts up as we move through the remainder of FY 18, and into
       FY19.  We need to continue to give Fundraising all the support we
       can, while keeping an eye on our expenses at the same time.   We
       should also recognize that the Foundation as compared to not only its
       FY18 budget but also to FY 17 actuals, is in “a very good place” and
       we should all be very proud of that fact, as we finish out FY 18 and
       enter FY19.

       The Cash Basis Audit is almost complete.

       Board Summary Financials

       Cash Balances: 
         Citizens Checking             281,093.30
         Citizens Money Market       1,511,199.17      
         Paypal - ASF                    1,077.29
       Total Checking/Savings        1,793,369.76
                                    
                                           Jan-18       Budget     Variance
       Income Summary:              
         Public Donations                4,646.40     4,291.00       355.40 
         Sponsorship Program           226,000.00    25,000.00   201,000.00 
         Programs Income                     0.00         0.00         0.00 
         Other Income                    2,695.87         0.00     2,695.87 
         Interest Income                 1,114.41       292.92       821.49 
       Total Income                    234,456.68    29,583.92   204,872.76 
                                    
       Expense Summary:             
         Infrastructure                 64,918.47    71,672.39    -6,753.92 
         Sponsorship Program             2,666.45     5,000.00    -2,333.55 
         Programs Expense                    0.00         0.00         0.00 
         Publicity                       7,104.76    24,375.00   -17,270.24 
         Brand Management                    0.00     7,416.67    -7,416.67 
         Conferences                     5,520.44         0.00     5,520.44 
         Travel Assistance Committee         0.00         0.00         0.00 
         Tax and Audit                   2,525.00     4,200.00    -1,675.00 
         Treasury Services               3,350.00     3,500.00      -150.00 
         General & Administrative       26,087.10    12,664.87    13,422.23 
       Total Expense                   112,172.22   128,828.93   -16,656.71 
       Net Income                      122,284.46   -99,245.01   221,529.47 

                                         YTD 2018       Budget     Variance
       Income Summary:
         Public Donations               49,568.24    27,694.77    21,873.47
         Sponsorship Program         1,125,612.08   616,250.00   509,362.08
         Programs Income                15,100.00    28,025.00   -12,925.00
         Other Income                   14,546.32         0.00    14,546.32
         Interest Income                 6,774.42     2,636.28     4,138.14
       Total Income                  1,211,601.06   674,606.05   536,995.01

       Expense Summary:
         In Kind Expense                     0.00         0.00         0.00
         Infrastructure                621,953.38   621,600.53       352.85
         Sponsorship Program            19,498.41    28,250.00    -8,751.59
         Programs Expense                    0.00         0.00         0.00
         Publicity                     107,142.32   151,375.00   -44,232.68
         Brand Management               44,161.02    66,750.03   -22,589.01
         Conferences                    10,720.59     8,418.00     2,302.59
         Travel Assistance Committee     2,191.81    22,500.00   -20,308.19
         Tax and Audit                   4,687.00    10,200.00    -5,513.00
         Treasury Services              29,900.00    30,950.00    -1,050.00
         General & Administrative      101,235.18    97,755.54     3,479.64
       Total Expense                   941,489.71 1,037,799.10   -96,309.39
       Net Income                      270,111.35  -363,193.05   633,304.40

       Assistant Treasurer's Report:

       Pineapple Fund conversion to cash continues.  We have converted 500k
       to date with $375K of the agreed cash received.  Bank transfers have
       been a problem.

       Virtual has merged with DMG and PCS.  There are no changes except
       good ones expected from the merger.  Tom will remain our account
       manager.  Lynsey will also remain with us.  Michelle is getting a
       promotion so she'll be available but her work will be transitioning
       to someone else.

       Taxes ending FY 4/3/2017 coming along well.  Expect to get them to
       the board for a short (3 days) review.

       Audit is closing soon.  Expect to receive a statement without
       condition that the audit through 4/30/2017 reflects the foundation as
       expected with scheduling audits ever 3 years thereafter.  Please make
       sure to respond to the Audit Questions sent 2/16 to the board ASAP.

       AUDIT QUESTION: In September 2016, a Credit Card Policy and Procedure
       was put forth.  Was that ever implemented?

       1.5mm CDAR Transfers from Citizens to Boston Private done: 800K in 52
       week, auto renewing CDAR Starting day 1 400K in 26 week, auto
       renewing CDAR Starting day 1 150K in 4 week, auto renewing CDAR
       Starting one month after the above 150K in 2nd 4 week, auto renewing
       CDAR starting 2 weeks after the above

       Documenting payment privacy changes is now in KAM’s court.

       Previously Reported Items Still Tracking w/Nothing to Report
       - Have not tested transferwise.com, pending a contractor’s help
         testing.
       - Contribution Language for Car Donations - No update.  Not a high
         priority.
       - Need still to get contracts for Virtual, Hopsie & HALO confirmed
         and in ASF SVN or drive.
       - Quickbooks Backups - Need to ping Virtual and check on progress for
         this.
       - Have not handled the PackT royalties
       - Minimum donation still pending Hopsie

    D. Secretary [Craig]

       Progress on the new discuss/vote/invite/file tool continues.

       In January 64 ICLAS, two CCLAs, and one grant were received and filed.

    E. Executive Vice President [Ross]

       Infrastructure
       ==============

       Request for board feedback: Does the board want to allow additional
       spend for specific projects, specifically using Infrastructure costs
       beyond its budget? Full details in the Infrastructure report, in
       summary the question is raised because "Historically, the Board has
       generally stated that projects and their communities should be
       self-sufficient and receive no additional Foundation funds to support
       them beyond their internal ability" and a situation has been
       identified in which a single project is consuming resources beyond the
       normal provision of support.

       As an observation I will remind the board that there is existing
       provision for experimentation to allow projects to seek directed
       sponsorship to cover such expenses.

       Separately, two new initiatives to lower overheads are underway: 1)
       identify high usage of shared services within projects so that such
       usage can be investigated and reduced if appropriate 2) migration of
       Top Level Project web hosting to public cloud thanks to a long term
       donation of resources (significantly bandwidth requirements in
       existing hosting).

       Marketing and Publicity
       =======================

       Business as usual - noting increased impact from sponsor engagement,
       e.g. healthy cross promotion of "Success at Apache: A Newbie's
       Narrative" https://s.apache.org/A72H. Such activities help deliver
       sponsor value while, at the same time, amplifying the foundations
       message.

       Conferences
       ===========

       ApacheCon NA 2018 is confirmed and CFP and registration is open
       http://apachecon.com/acna18/ and planning is progressing well.

       Apache Roadshow (EU) is also confirmed. Co-located with FOSS Backstage
       in Berlin.

       A NA Apache Roadshow is also in planning.

       Our Thanks to Rich Bowen and Sharan Foga for driving this difficult
       process.

       TAC
       ===

       TAC have rallied quickly to enable applications for TAC support for
       ApacheCon NA. Applications are open.

       @Jim: work with Greg on resourcing infra resources for
       OpenOffice

    F. Vice Chairman [Jim]

       Just a few external responses w/ my Vice-Chairman hat on.
       Nothing requiring board attention at this time.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of W3C Relations [Andy Seaborne / Brett]

       See Attachment 8

    B. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Chris Mattmann]

       See Attachment 9

    C. Apache Security Team Project [Mark J. Cox / Phil]

       See Attachment 10

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    Summary of Reports

     The following reports required further discussion:

        # Clerezza [mt]
        # Mnemonic [bp]
        # Open Climate Workbench [ps]
        # Trafodion [rb]

    A. Apache Ambari Project [Yusaku Sako / Ted]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Ant Project [Jan Materne / Chris]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Axis Project [Robert Lazarski / Mark]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache BookKeeper Project [Sijie Guo / Shane]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Brooklyn Project [Richard Downer / Jim]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache Buildr Project [Antoine Toulme / Bertrand]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Cassandra Project [Nate McCall / Rich]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Clerezza Project [Hasan Hasan / Shane]

       See Attachment H

       @Mark: is this project still viable?

    I. Apache Cocoon Project [Cédric Damioli / Mark]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Community Development Project [Sharan Foga / Chris]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache CouchDB Project [Jan Lehnardt / Phil]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache Creadur Project [Brian E Fox / Jim]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache DeltaSpike Project [Mark Struberg / Ted]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache DRAT Project [Chris Mattmann]

       No report was submitted.

    O. Apache Drill Project [Aman Sinha / Bertrand]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache Empire-db Project [Rainer Döbele / Rich]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Flume Project [Mike Percy / Brett]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Shane]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache Geode Project [Mark Bretl / Rich]

       See Attachment S

    T. Apache Giraph Project [Avery Ching / Jim]

       No report was submitted.

       @Jim: pursue a report for Giraph

    U. Apache Gora Project [Lewis John McGibbney / Mark]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Groovy Project [Guillaume Laforge / Bertrand]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Guacamole Project [Mike Jumper / Brett]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Hama Project [Chia-Hung Lin / Chris]

       No report was submitted.

       @Chris: pursue a report for Hama

    Y. Apache HTTP Server Project [Daniel Gruno / Ted]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache HttpComponents Project [Asankha Chamath Perera / Phil]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Ignite Project [Denis A. Magda / Phil]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Impala Project [Jim Apple / Chris]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache Incubator Project [John D. Ament / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache James Project [Eric Charles / Mark]

       No report was submitted.

       @Danny: pursue a report for James

    AE. Apache jUDDI Project [Alex O'Ree / Rich]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache Juneau Project [James Bognar / Shane]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache Kafka Project [Jun Rao / Ted]

       See Attachment AG

    AH. Apache Kibble Project [Rich Bowen]

       See Attachment AH

    AI. Apache Knox Project [Larry McCay / Brett]

       See Attachment AI

    AJ. Apache Kylin Project [Luke Han / Jim]

       See Attachment AJ

    AK. Apache Lens Project [Amareshwari Sriramadasu / Bertrand]

       See Attachment AK

    AL. Apache Libcloud Project [Tomaž Muraus / Shane]

       See Attachment AL

    AM. Apache Logging Services Project [Matt Sicker / Phil]

       See Attachment AM

    AN. Apache ManifoldCF Project [Karl Wright / Mark]

       See Attachment AN

    AO. Apache Marmotta Project [Jakob Frank / Jim]

       See Attachment AO

    AP. Apache Mesos Project [Benjamin Hindman / Rich]

       See Attachment AP

    AQ. Apache MetaModel Project [Kasper Sørensen / Chris]

       See Attachment AQ

    AR. Apache Mnemonic Project [Gang Wang / Brett]

       See Attachment AR

       @Brett: discuss with PMC content of the report

    AS. Apache Oltu Project [Antonio Sanso / Ted]

       No report was submitted.

       @Jim: draft a resolution for the Attic for Oltu

    AT. Apache Oozie Project [Robert Kanter / Phil]

       See Attachment AT

    AU. Apache Open Climate Workbench Project [Michael James Joyce / Jim]

       See Attachment AU

       @Jim: follow up with PMC on activity

    AV. Apache Perl Project [Philippe Chiasson / Chris]

       No report was submitted.

       @Chris: pursue a report for Perl

    AW. Apache Phoenix Project [James R. Taylor / Brett]

       See Attachment AW

    AX. Apache POI Project [Dominik Stadler / Mark]

       See Attachment AX

    AY. Apache Qpid Project [Robert Gemmell / Ted]

       See Attachment AY

    AZ. Apache REEF Project [Byung-Gon Chun / Rich]

       See Attachment AZ

    BA. Apache River Project [Peter Firmstone / Bertrand]

       See Attachment BA

    BB. Apache RocketMQ Project [Xiaorui Wang / Shane]

       See Attachment BB

    BC. Apache Roller Project [David M. Johnson / Ted]

       See Attachment BC

    BD. Apache Santuario Project [Colm O hEigeartaigh / Phil]

       See Attachment BD

    BE. Apache Serf Project [Bert Huijben / Rich]

       See Attachment BE

    BF. Apache SIS Project [Martin Desruisseaux / Bertrand]

       See Attachment BF

    BG. Apache Spark Project [Matei Alexandru Zaharia / Shane]

       See Attachment BG

    BH. Apache Subversion Project [Stefan Sperling / Mark]

       See Attachment BH

    BI. Apache Syncope Project [Francesco Chicchiriccò / Jim]

       See Attachment BI

    BJ. Apache SystemML Project [Jon Deron Eriksson / Brett]

       See Attachment BJ

    BK. Apache Trafodion Project [Pierre Smits / Chris]

       See Attachment BK

    BL. Apache Turbine Project [Georg Kallidis / Mark]

       See Attachment BL

    BM. Apache Usergrid Project [Todd Nine / Rich]

       See Attachment BM

    BN. Apache Velocity Project [Nathan Bubna / Jim]

       See Attachment BN

    BO. Apache Whimsy Project [Sam Ruby / Chris]

       See Attachment BO

    BP. Apache Xalan Project [Steven J. Hathaway / Brett]

       No report was submitted.

       @Brett: pursue a report or Attic proposal for Xalan

    BQ. Apache Xerces Project [Michael Glavassevich / Bertrand]

       No report was submitted.

    BR. Apache XML Graphics Project [Glenn Adams / Ted]

       See Attachment BR

    BS. Apache Fineract Project [Myrle Krantz / Shane]

       See Attachment BS

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders
 
    A. Update the Legal Affairs PMC Based on Opt-In Request

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee of The Apache Software Foundation
       (ASF) expects to better serve its purpose through the periodic update
       of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee is an Executive Committee whose
       membership must be approved by Board resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following contributors be
       removed as a Legal Affairs Committee member:

         Cliff Schmidt              <cliffs@apache.org>
         Davanum Srinivas           <dims@apache.org>
         Garrett Rooney             <rooneg@apache.org>
         Justin Erenkrantz          <jerenkrantz@apache.org>
         Kevan Lee Miller           <kevan@apache.org>
         Marvin Humphrey            <marvin@apache.org>

       Special Order 7A, Update the Legal Affairs PMC Based on Opt-In
       Request, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.
         
    B. Update the Legal Affairs PMC per discussions related to Brand & Trademarks

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee of The Apache Software Foundation
       (ASF) expects to better serve its purpose through the periodic update
       of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee is an Executive Committee whose
       membership must be approved by Board resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following contributors be
       added as a Legal Affairs Committee member:

         Shane Curcuru              <curcuru@apache.org>
         Mark Thomas                <markt@apache.org>

       Special Order 7B, Update the Legal Affairs PMC per discussions
       related to Brand & Trademarks, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the
       directors present.
                  
         
    C. Change the Apache Brooklyn Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Richard Downer
       (richard) to the office of Vice President, Apache Brooklyn, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Richard Downer from the office of Vice President, Apache Brooklyn, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Brooklyn
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Geoff Macartney (geomacy) as
       the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Richard Downer is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of Vice
       President, Apache Brooklyn, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Geoff Macartney be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Brooklyn, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
       appointed.

       Special Order 7C, Change the Apache Brooklyn Project Chair,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

    D. Change the Apache Sqoop Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Jarek Jarcec
       Cecho to the office of Vice President, Apache Sqoop, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Jarek Jarcec Cecho from the office of Vice President, Apache Sqoop,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Sqoop project
       has chosen to recommend Venkat Ranganathan as the successor to the
       post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Jarek Jarcec Cecho is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of
       Vice President, Apache Sqoop, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Venkat Ranganathan be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Sqoop, to serve in
       accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors
       and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement,
       removal or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7D, Change the Apache Sqoop Project Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

    E. Establish the Apache DataFu Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
       of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
       establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation and
       maintenance of open-source software, for distribution at no charge to
       the public, consisting of well-tested libraries that help developers
       solve common data problems in Hadoop and similar distributed systems.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management Committee
       (PMC), to be known as the "Apache DataFu Project", be and hereby is
       established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache DataFu Project be and hereby is responsible
       for the creation and maintenance of libraries that help solve common
       data problems and work with large-scale data in Hadoop and similar
       distributed systems; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of
       Vice President, Apache DataFu be and hereby is created, the person
       holding such office to serve at the direction of the Board of
       Directors as the chair of the Apache DataFu Project, and to have
       primary responsibility for management of the projects within the scope
       of responsibility of the Apache DataFu Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
       appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache DataFu
       Project:

         * Casey Stella <cestella@apache.org>
         * Evion Kim <evion@apache.org>
         * Eyal Allweil <eyal@apache.org>
         * Jarek Jarcec Cecho <jarcec@apache.org>
         * Josh Wills <jwills@apache.org>
         * Matthew Hayes <mhayes@apache.org>
         * Mitul Tiwari <mitultiwari@apache.org>
         * Roman Shaposhnik <rvs@apache.org>
         * Russell Jurney <rjurney@apache.org>
         * Sam Shah <samshah@apache.org>
         * William Vaughan <wvaughan@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Matthew Hayes be
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache DataFu, to serve in
       accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors
       and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement,
       removal or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be
       it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache DataFu PMC be and hereby is tasked
       with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage open
       development and increased participation in the Apache DataFu Project;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache DataFu Project be and hereby is tasked with
       the migration and rationalization of the Apache Incubator DataFu
       podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache Incubator
       DataFu podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator Project are
       hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 7E, Establish the Apache DataFu Project, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

    F. Change the Apache Geronimo Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Alan Cabrera 
       (adc) to the office of Vice President, Apache Geronimo, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Alan Cabrera from the office of Vice President, Apache Geronimo,
       and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache Geronimo
       project has chosen by vote to recommend Romain Manni-Bucau (rmannibucau)
       as the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Alan Cabrera is relieved and
       discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Geronimo, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Romain Manni-Bucau be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Geronimo, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7F, Change the Apache Geronimo Project Chair,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

 8. Discussion Items

    A. Ratify /board/policies page

       We have a simple yet comprehensive single page list of all services
       available to PMCs, and policies required of PMCs by the board. The
       board should agree to remove the DRAFT markers and use this page to
       help improve board<->PMC shared expectations.
       https://www.apache.org/board/policies

    B. Finalize member meeting date - 3/20-3/22

    C. 5-Year Strategic Plan for the Apache Software Foundation

      Vision

      Our mission is to support the creation and distribution of Open Source
      software at no charge under the Apache License, as per our Bylaws. To
      this end we provide project spaces and resources for like-minded
      communities to flourish, produce and release software under our legal
      umbrella.

      We are strongly attached to our projects' independence from any external
      influences, be they corporate, organizational or otherwise. This allows
      us to provide a neutral space for our communities.

      As a Foundation we do not have a technical strategy, we delegate that to
      our projects.

      The Foundation is managed and directed by its Members, who are
      individual volunteers, as opposed to companies or organizations, who
      cannot be Members of the Foundation nor take a direct role in our
      projects.

      We help our communities understand and practice the Apache Way, a
      collection of best practices for collaboration and project
      sustainability that we document and clarify on an ongoing basis.

      Our community members act as individuals and their rights and
      responsibilities are based their merit, defined by what they
      individually do in project communities, not on any external affiliation,
      title, or degree they may have, nor on their contributions to other
      projects or organizations.

      We provide very reliable and highly automated core infrastructure
      services to our projects and encourage them to use some external
      non-core services in addition to that, based on their specific needs,
      when that helps keep our own services simple and focused. For
      durability, all our critical data and services are managed or mirrored
      on systems that we fully control.

      Our marketing and outreach is focused on activities that directly
      support our mission, along with fundraising-related activities that help
      find and retain the sponsors on which our operations depend.

      We provide legal and brand management services to our projects based on
      demonstrated needs, and define branding guidelines to help our projects
      benefit from the strong Apache brand in an appropriate way.

      We welcome new projects via our Incubator, where experienced Mentors
      help them learn to operate as an Apache community and project.
      Incubation is where communities are defined, so we put a strong emphasis
      on guidance during the incubation phase to preserve our core values as
      the Foundation grows.

      Objectives

      1. Ensure that the services that the ASF offers to project communities
         are clearly defined and can be reliably delivered in a manner that
         meets their expectations.

      2. Improve our success for identifying, attracting, welcoming and
         developing “like-minded communities” that will be successful at the
         ASF.

      3. Effectively scale our operations and governance processes in such a
         way that the ASF continues to be a light-process, light-governance,
         largely decentralized organization whose central operations serve
         projects in a manner consistent with the way PMCs are expected to
         serve their communities.

      4. Ensure the financial soundness of the ASF over the term of the plan
         and establish the foundation for long-term stability.

      ASF Services - Infrastructure

      The ASF currently provides infrastructure services to project
      communities including mailing list, website and scm hosting, Issue
      trackers and a range of build and deployment tools.  Many projects now
      use GitHub and other “external” providers for some of these services.
      Infrastructure services overall account for more than 80% of the total
      ASF expense budget.  Increasingly, project communities have
      infrastructure requirements that strain the capabilities of the ASF.  We
      have, broadly speaking, three choices on how to plan the evolution of
      ASF infrastructure services:

      1. Limit incoming project communities to those with needs that we can
         already service and plan using a simple growth forecast.

      2. Provision for the demands of projects with unusually large needs and
         increase budget forecasts accordingly.

      3. Encourage more use of externally provided services by project
         communities.

      We believe that 3. Is the best option, using a simple growth forecast to
      project expenses and effective governance and mentoring to ensure that
      using externally provided services does not in any way present barriers
      to entry to projects or reduce transparency, inclusiveness and diversity
      in project decision-making.  This requires that we make clear to project
      communities the limitations of the services that they can expect from
      the ASF and support and enable them to secure necessary infrastructure
      support externally.  We must also ensure that policies and practices for
      using external services do not result in any loss of independence,
      transparency or inclusiveness among ASF project communities.  The ASF
      Directed Sponsorship program should be considered as a first option for
      projects in need of support beyond what ASF infrastructure provides.
      From an infrastructure budget planning perspective, this means that we
      can use conservative forecasts, based on simple project-count based
      models.  Moreover, we do not believe that limiting infrastructure
      expense growth should be a consideration in our strategy for managing
      inflow into the Incubator.  In other words, we do not intend to use
      Incubator inflow limitation as a strategy for infrastructure cost
      management.

      ASF Services - Marketing, Publicity and Brand Management

      Services in this category are provided both at the foundation level and
      to individual projects. To date, our focus has been primarily on
      effectively responding to queries and press events, managing our ASF
      public presence and supporting projects communities in promoting
      achievements and events.  We can expect the demand for these currently
      provided services to scale over the next 5 years commensurately with the
      growth in projects.

      A challenge that has been identified as critical to our plan is the need
      to ensure that the communities that we attract and welcome into the ASF
      really are “like-minded” in the sense that they contribute positively to
      the evolution of the Apache Way.  There are two things that we should
      plan to do to improve the effectiveness of community marketing and
      development at the ASF:

      1.  Move from a mostly passive, “see what comes our way” approach to
          project community marketing to a more proactive and strategic
          approach Move to a selective intake model
      2.  Improve training and communication on the Apache Way

      These items will require marketing and publicity resources beyond what
      we have in place today.  In addition to continuing strong contribution
      by volunteers,  we should plan, therefore, to increase our investment in
      ASF marketing and communications.  Both of these items will also require
      more focus from the Board and the ASF membership on developing our
      outreach, selection and mentoring practices.

      ASF Services - Conferences and Community Development

      The ASF has traditionally held annual conferences, often on multiple
      continents.  We believe that these conferences contribute to our mission
      in (at least) two ways.  First, they provide a venue for ASF volunteers
      to meet face-to-face.  In some cases, this is the only venue in which
      ASF volunteers get to meet one another in person.  Secondly, conferences
      can be used to generate interest in Apache project communities.  ASF
      conferences have had two operational challenges.  First, they have
      generally lost money in recent years.  This has contributed to the
      second challenge, which is that it is difficult if not impossible to run
      high-quality conferences using all volunteer resources.  To put it
      simply, if the conferences made money, commercial providers would run
      them for us.  They do not make money.

      We plan to run an experiment in 2018, using ASF funds to remove the
      profitability constraint from ASF conferences.  If this experiment is
      successful, we may agree on an annual subsidy that VP, Conferences can
      plan to use to make up the difference between what ASF conferences cost
      to produce and the revenue that they generate.

      ASF-level conferences are not the only events that our communities use
      to collaborate in-person.  We believe that individual or group
      project-level events also contribute to our mission and we should
      support them.  In some cases, project communities ask for and receive
      support from commercial entities for project events.  We want to
      encourage this type of support and we want the process for enabling it
      to be as simple and easy as possible for both the communities and the
      sponsoring organizations.  Given that not all project communities will
      be able to find the funds for events that will benefit them, we will
      agree on an annual budget to cover project-specific community
      development initiatives.  That budget will be administered by the
      Community Development PMC.

      ASF Services - Legal

      ASF is fortunate to have pro bono legal counsel available that meets
      most of our legal advice and representation needs.  The exception to
      this is trademarks-related costs, which we are no longer able to acquire
      as a pro bono service.  We need, therefore, to develop a strategy and
      budget for this expense.

      ASF Processes - PMC lifecycle

      We believe that the processes for onboarding new communities via the
      Incubator (or direct to TLP) channels are fit for purpose and can
      continue to scale.  We also believe that the core oversight processes
      for operating PMCs can continue to serve the needs of the foundation
      over at least the next five years.  Finally, we believe that the Attic
      provides an effective means for retiring no longer viable projects.  In
      each of these cases, however, we hope to make significant progress over
      the next 5 years improving our implementation and execution (without
      necessarily introducing new PMC lifecycle phases or governance
      processes).  Specifically, we hope to:

      1. Improve the community mentoring and understanding of Apache Way
         processes during the incubation process

      2. Improve the success rate for podlings entering the Incubator.  Here
         “success” means timely graduation and evolution to become healthy
         TLPs. We would like to reduce the time podlings spend in the
         Incubator, as much as possible. Either by graduating them quickly, if
         they are found to be a good fit for the ASF, or by failing them
         quickly if they're not a good fit.

      3. Reduce the need for Board intervention in PMC affairs

      As the ASF scales, the ability for the Board and members with long
      experience to engage with Incubator podlings and TLPs is becoming an
      effective growth rate limiter.  We need to either reduce the growth
      rate, increase the speed with which new members can become effective
      mentors, or improve processes and built-in controls so that the
      objectives above are achieved without depending on increased ad hoc
      interventions.  Our aim is actually to decrease the need for
      intervention in communities by ASF members not already substantively
      engaged in those communities.

      Our planning assumption is that the rate of new projects entering the
      Incubator will continue to grow according to the trend of the last three
      years.  We do not expect the percentage of initial inquiries that lead
      to entering podlings to decrease, but we hope to improve the
      effectiveness of the outreach, intake and incubation processes.  In
      other words, our aim is not to be “more rigorous” in allowing podlings
      into the Incubator, but rather to get a more-likely-to-succeed mix
      entering the funnel and improving mentoring and access to resources for
      podlings.  We do not intend to artificially throttle the flow into or
      out of the Incubator, but we will focus on improving mentoring and the
      availability of active and engaged mentors is likely to become a
      constraint to the growth rate.  Regarding outreach, we believe that
      investments in planned and structured marketing to help attract good
      prospective communities is important and our intention is to make these
      investments.


      ASF Processes - Governance

      As the ASF scales, our flat, direct-oversight governance model will
      continue to face challenges.  Over the next 5 years, we expect to need
      to make some changes in how governance works, but our goal is to, as
      much as possible, hold onto the basic model that exists today wherein
      the only recognized organizational entities are PMCs, the Board, the
      Membership, committers, the Officers and committees responsible for ASF
      operations.  In other words, we do not intend to insert organizational
      layers such as groups of PMCs or different levels among Directors or
      within the membership.  We will continue to encourage TLPs that verge on
      becoming “umbrellas” to split into multiple projects so that PMC members
      can be expected to provide oversight to full project communities.

      We expect the PMC reporting schedule to scale manageably over the next 5
      years.  The Board currently reviews approximately 80 reports per month
      today and we expect that number to grow to approximately 100 by 2023.
      Reviewing such a large number of reports may become difficult for
      Directors and the amount of time taken in monthly meetings to give
      attention to reports needing attention will become challenging.  We
      believe that we are already facing challenges giving sufficient time and
      Director attention to strategic topics.  We have been able to scale to
      our current TLP count through innovations such as the rotation schedule
      itself, the Whimsy agenda management tool, the shepherd model and
      improvements in the reports themselves.  We are going to need to develop
      additional innovations to enable us to continue to scale while providing
      strong oversight and foundation-level governance.  Our plan is to focus
      on process and tooling innovations to enable us to continue to scale,
      rather than inserting layers or detaching the board from project-level
      oversight.  In addition, we hope to improve cohesion and consistency
      among the Board and the membership in applying Apache Way principles to
      practical problems.  Better definition of the principles, illustrated in
      examples, will need to be developed to support this objective.

      The relationship between the Board and the Officers and Committees
      responsible for ASF operations needs to continue to evolve from direct,
      sometimes ambiguous, management to strategic direction, oversight and
      approval of actions requiring approval by the Board.  We have made
      progress recently getting roles and responsibilities better defined, but
      we still have work to do in this area.  Over the next 5 years, we expect
      to develop a Board - Officers operating model that is as well-defined as
      the Board - PMC model in place today (which will itself evolve and
      improve).  Similarly to the model with PMC Chairs, our objective is for
      the Board to provide high-level oversight but to delegate operational
      responsibilities to Officers.

      The relationship between the Board, PMCs and ASF officers responsible
      for security, brand management and trademarks needs to be better defined
      and managed.  In some cases, VPs responsible for these areas are
      empowered to make demands of PMCs on behalf of the foundation.  We have
      not been sufficiently clear what the scope and bounds of this authority
      are.  We will address this ambiguity in 2018 and improve the model over
      the next 5 years.  As a guiding principle, our objective is to
      communicate (and take input on) PMC requirements effectively so that the
      need for Officer intervention is rare.  Moreover, we aim to limit the
      requirements themselves to the minimum necessary to ensure that the core
      interests of the PMCs and the Foundation are protected.

      To promote healthy inflow of new ideas and connection with project
      communities, we will also explore means to ensure that more members have
      the opportunity to serve in Director and Officer roles.

      ASF Budget and Finance - Finance operations

      The ASF has effectively outsourced core financial operations to an
      organization management firm.  This has been a key element in our
      ability to manage our growth and improve the quality and comprehension
      of our financial controls and reporting without taking on paid staff to
      manage these functions.  The Treasurer role, which had become
      intractable for a volunteer to execute responsibly, has now become an
      oversight role that is being effectively managed by volunteers
      (Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer).  We do not anticipate the need to
      change this arrangement over the next five years.

      ASF Budget and Finance - Financial Analysis and Planning

      The rigor and regularity of ASF financial planning and analysis
      activities is improving and over the next 5 years, we expect to evolve a
      set of leading and durable practices.  Currently, we have annual
      processes to determine the coming year’s budget and to update the 5-year
      outlook.  We will continue both of these practices.  Focus for the next
      year (2018) will be ensuring strategic alignment between both the
      financial plan and the goals and priorities of the Foundation.  The 2018
      budget will conform overall to the 5-year plan in this document, but
      lines may be modified to reflect consensus on priorities discussions
      among the membership.  Revision of the 5-year plan will begin
      immediately following finalization of the 2018 budget and this cadence
      will continue over the next five years with improvements each year in
      proactive planning and discussion so that the budget and 5-year plan
      update processes are less about tactical tradeoffs and debates over
      individual lines and more about officer analysis and discretion applied
      to make practical decisions consistent with agreed upon strategies.
      Starting in 2018, we will also introduce a quarterly financial review,
      which will extend and deepen the analysis included in monthly
      Treasurer’s reports.  This review will be open to the membership and
      executed asynchronously.

      ASF Budget and Finance - Fundraising

      The financial plan presented below shows an increase from the 2017
      expense budget of $1.2MM  to $2.3MM in 2023.  This presents a big
      challenge for ASF fundraising.  At the same time, the role, VP
      Fundraising, is becoming difficult for a single volunteer to handle.
      Outsourcing fundraising operations to our organization management
      partner has helped but it is hard to see the current model as
      sustainable and capable of meeting the increased demands that we
      anticipate over the next 5 years.  Therefore, we are planning to invest
      significantly over the next 5 years in fundraising assistance.  This
      assistance will take one or more of the following three forms:

      1. Additional services provided by our organization management partner

      2. Addition of paid fundraising staff

      3. Engagement of a partner specializing in fundraising

      In 2018, our focus will be on exploring the first option and expanding
      the leverage of Board members and other members in fundraising
      activities.  If by year-end 2018, we are meeting or exceeding
      fundraising goals and VP, Fundraising has become a volunteer-manageable
      position, we will limit any additional investment to 1. along with
      marketing / communications in support of fundraising activities.  If by
      mid-year 2018, we have not achieved the current budget plan and / or the
      challenges have become intractable, we will begin exploration of options
      2. and 3.

      In 2017, we made good progress getting better definition on practical
      and legal aspects of the sponsorship program.  We arrived at a set of
      sponsor benefits that accurately reflect what the ASF can currently
      provide and what different sponsorship levels entitle sponsors to.  We
      believe that in order to significantly expand the potential sponsor base
      and to ensure consistent renewals, we need to define some more
      compelling benefits for ASF sponsors.  Several ideas have been discussed
      in this area, but we have yet to achieve consensus on specific
      improvements.  Defining and implementing these improvements will be a
      key focus for us over the next several years.   At a minimum, we will
      formally review and consider modifications to the program as part of the
      strategic plan refresh each year.

      In 2017, we began a partnership with a company providing digital and
      payment processing services to promote and manage individual donations.
      This partnership has been successful.  Most importantly, we have the
      beginnings of an individual donor relationship management system.  We
      expect that as our donor base grows and we better manage communications
      with individual donors, we will be able to grow individual contributions
      at a rate equal to or exceeding the growth in revenue from the
      sponsorship program.  This will require continued focus on ASF marketing
      and communications and effective outreach and management of individual
      donor relationships.   In 2017, we executed one fundraising drive aimed
      at soliciting individual contributions.  In 2018, we will do this at
      least twice and in subsequent  years, we will increase the frequency
      contacts with existing and prospective individual donors, leveraging our
      marketing, fundraising and finance operations partners to plan and
      execute campaigns.

      ASF Budget and Finance - External Partnerships

      We considered a proposal in 2017 to form a revenue-generating joint
      venture, managed via a separate legal entity.  The proposal was to
      partner with a commercial company to produce ASF-certified training
      materials, with a portion of the revenue returned to the ASF.  The Board
      rejected this proposal.  It is important to note, however, that we did
      not conclude that no commercial partnership returning revenue to the ASF
      could ever be approved.  The proposal was rejected because it would in
      our estimation make misleading use of ASF brands and also “pick winners”
      inconsistently with our principles.  We hope to consider alternative
      proposals to fairly, honestly and consistently with our principles raise
      revenue for the ASF.  As noted above, conferences have not been a source
      of positive income for us in the recent past, but they are an example of
      a commercial activity that can be done consistently with our principles.
      We hope to define at least one new revenue stream resulting from
      commercially valuable activities that contribute to our mission over the
      next five years.  The current 5-year financial plan does not include any
      revenue projections from these activities.

      ASF Budget and Finance - 5-year Financial Plan

      Details (with updated numbers) of the 5-year financial plan are
      presented below.  In aggregate, we expect expenses to grow from $1.42MM
      in FY 2018 to $2.2MM in FY 2023.  Income is projected to grow from
      $1.23MM to $1.91MM over the same period.  This will result in our
      FY18 cash reserve of $1.77MM being reduced to $1.16MM by the end of
      FY 2023. The plan, as currently formulated also does not include the
      increments in funding suggested above for Community Development, nor
      does it separate a legal defense reserve.

      Budget lines currently forecast to have the largest increases are
      fundraising (515% increase) brand (152%), and publicity (113%).  The
      largest component of our expense base, infrastructure, is forecast to
      increase by only 34%.  The increase in fundraising is justified by the
      commensurate forecasted increase in income from donations, which is
      currently forecast at 57%.  In absolute terms, the fundraising increment
      is $237k per year, which is expected to return (a portion of) the
      forecasted increase of $690k per year in total donations.  We should be
      able to improve that ratio.

    D. FY23 budget

                                  FY18    FY22    FY23
       Income
         Total Public Donations    111     135     220
         Total Sponsorship       1,084   1,500   1,665 
         Total Programs             28      28      28
         Interest Income             4       4       4
                                  ----    ----    ----
         Total Income            1,227   1,667   1,917

       Expense
         Infrastructure            818     868   1,099
         Program Expenses           27      27      27
         Publicity                 182     352     387
         Brand Management           89     141     225    
         Conferences                60      12      60
         Travel Assistance          50      79      25 
         Treasury                   49      51      61
         Fundraising                46      53     283
         General & Administrative  118     139      44
         Chairman's Discretionary   10       0      10
                                  ----    ----    ----
         Total Expense           1,418   1,722   2,211
           Net                    -212     -55    -294
           Cash                  1,767     595   1,261

       Notes:
        * Units are in thousands of dollars US.
        * FY18 income/expense represents budget authorization, not actuals
          FY18 Cash, however, represents current (conservative) projections
        * FY22 column is for informational purposes only

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Ted: Discuss state of development with PMC; encourage on-list development
          [ Tajo 2017-06-21 ]
          Status:

    * Ted: pursue a report for Community Development; look at previous examples of
          [ Community Development 2017-08-16 ]
          Status:

    * Mark: follow up re: handling security issues
          [ Cordova 2017-12-20 ]
          Status: Complete: The PMC is taking steps to move the security issues
                  only in Jira to either normal bugs or the standard security
                  process.

    * Rich: follow up on previous board comments regarding PMC and committers
          [ UIMA 2017-12-20 ]
          Status:

    * Mark: pursue feedback from board meetings
          [ ActiveMQ 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: Ongoing: svn to git update has been requested

    * Mark: follow up board feedback
          [ AsterixDB 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: In progress. Looks like PMC additions are happening but have
                  asked for a formal answer to the question.

    * Brett: follow up on possible chair change
          [ Geronimo 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: in the agenda

    * Bertrand: pursue a report for Mesos
          [ Mesos 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: present

    * Sally: review the mission statement for publication
          [ Discussion Items 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: Done - reviewed & Sally published:
                  https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/entry/the-apache-software-foundation-2018

    * Sam: pursue an alternative board conference call strategy
          [ Discussion Items 2018-01-17 ]
          Status: Done.  https://s.apache.org/W62R

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 12:29 p.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of Brand Management  [Shane Curcuru]

* ISSUES FOR THE BOARD (continuing issue)

The number of PMC and external requests, plus required coordination with
our counsel for PMC-requested trademark registration services coming in
continues to exceed the available volunteer expertise and time by a
significant amount.  Separately, we have recently turned down several
PMC requests for registration services due to the currently limited budget.

Mark Thomas has stepped up his volunteer time significantly and has been
handling many operational tasks this month - many thanks to him.  We
hope to have some organizational changes that may improve the ability to
handle the workload in the coming month.


* OPERATIONS

Mark has been handling the majority of operational questions this month.
There were also several lengthy threads with questions or varied
opinions on several incoming questions, permissions, or trademark law
questions that required research for the responses.

The Eclipse Foundation requested permission to consider using the
JAKARTA name for their new JavaEE.Next project, which they are currently
holding a contest to choose the final name.  We have agreed
preliminarily to sign a consent agreement clarifying the rights of both
organizations, as well as ensuring that Eclipse's future website will
include an acknowledgement of our Apache Jakarta project, which has been
in the Attic for some years, but nonetheless was an important source of
Java-related software in the past.  Overall public impressions of the
new use of JAKARTA by Eclipse are positive.

Website Analytics shows a slight uptick in traffic overall, but not
notable changes from past sources or behaviors.

Chris Mattmann provided some interesting perspectives from both an
outside trademark lawyer, as well as from our own counsel on the general
legal strategies and costs that we face.


* REGISTRATIONS & CONTRACTS

Several renewals and changes of ownership registration were made, which
necessitated a number of signed and notarized documents sent to counsel.

Several PMC requests for renewals of project marks in countries with
less obvious or sizeable developer communities were deemed not
cost-efficient given the currently approved brand budget.  This
generated a notable amount of pushback and discussion from the PMCs
involved.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Fundraising  [Kevin A. McGrail]

* Board Issue #1: Sponsorship of controversial sponsor as 3 year, paid in advance
bronze sponsor going to landing page. Please ask for a vote as KAM’s view is:
It's legal, they are willing to do a landing page, and it's nothing Amazon
doesn't sell.

* Overall Sponsorship continues to move along well. We’ve also hit $25K in
personal donations with Hopsie.

* Fundraising phone call on Jan 24 for Fundraising Committee.  Meetings now
quite routine and will occur monthly

* A corporate contributor has CCLA questions

They would like a schedule A for the CCLA that allows them to
designate a person or email address to update things like how we use a PSA &
SOW

Also, Can we web enable the schedule A for the CCLA?

And more CCLA Questions:
Part 1: The CCLA only has names.  Can we have it by email addresses?

Part 2: IP Provenance enforcement concerns.  Will find specific examples. 

* Planning to attend FOSS Backstage/Berlin Buzzwords - 
potential sponsor wants to meet there. 
Working on pitching more wall street firms
for potential sponsorship The targeted sponsorship aka thanks2.html file is
almost ready to launch.  I’ve completed my audit of the records which was
needed for the overall Foundation Audit.

* Planning to attend the OSLS event but waiting to get work to approve the time
off.

* Anyone attending OSCON?  We have a sponsor looking to meetup.

* Lunch with potential sponsor is being coordinated

* Working to get sponsors for our ApacheCon and Roadshow events.  Sent draft
prospectus to 5 sponsors for ApacheCon Montreal as well as the Apache
Roadshow in Berlin and Washington DC.

* GMU will host the Washington DC Roadshow:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PlCM1gAehiNwNsXpH2Zfu9qFHeRX9zuODBfqdA6-4oU/edit

* Fundraising issue with sites like Zazzle/Redbubble/Cafepress considered not
under Fundraising but let me know if you want me to hit them up for a
targeted sponsorship as a way to “repay” for the misuse.

* FOSDEM VP Fundraising attendance after report

Successful, well attended event.  Kudos to Sharan for spearheading things. 
In addition to talking to dozens of people, in my official capacity as VP
Fundraising, I did the following:
  - Attended Floss Dinner
  - Met with corporate contributor
  - Met with Google (3x's)
  - Attended GSOC Dinner on behalf of the ASF
  - Setup AWS Meeting for ApacheCon Sponsorship
  - Follow-up on potential 
    sponsorship (thanks to Rich Bowen)
  - Met with Eclipse CEO briefly.

Total expenses: 2541.93 USD

* No update on the Sponsor thank you / fundraising event


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity  [Sally Khudairi]

I. Budget: we are preparing our budget for the upcoming the fiscal year. We
remain on budget and on schedule, with no outstanding vendor payments due.

II. Cross-committee Liaison: we published The Apache Software Foundation 2018
Vision Statement https://s.apache.org/zqC3 . Work with ASF Fundraising
continues, with increased outreach and activity top-tier Sponsors. We
published the latest "Success at Apache" post, "Success at Apache: A Newbie's
Narrative" https://s.apache.org/A72H , which was enthusiastically
cross-promoted by the author's employer (an ASF Platinum Sponsor). In
addition, Sally Khudairi has been involved with discussions on possible future
directions with ASF Brand Management, and is also helping ApacheCon with
options for promoting the event.

III. Press Releases: the following formal announcements were issued via the
newswire service, ASF Foundation Blog, and announce@apache.org during this
timeframe:

  - 30 January 2018 - The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Kibble™
    as a Top-Level Project
  - 29 January 2018 - The Apache® Software Foundation Announces ApacheCon™ and
    Supporting Global Events
  - 18 January 2018 - The Apache® Software Foundation Receives Bitcoin
    Donation from Pineapple Fund Valued at $1M

IV. Informal Announcements: 10 items were published on the ASF "Foundation"
Blog. 5 Apache News Round-ups were issued, with a total of 186 weekly
summaries published to date. We tweeted 27 items, and have 46K followers on
Twitter. We posted 10 items on LinkedIn, which garnered more than 159.8K
organic impressions in total.

V. Future Announcements: two announcements are in development. Projects
planning to graduate from the Apache Incubator as well as PMCs wishing to
announce major project milestones and "Did You Know?" success stories are
requested to contact Sally at <press@apache.org> with at least 2-weeks' notice
for proper planning and execution.

VI. Media Relations: we responded to 6 media queries. The ASF received 1,682
press clips vs. last month's clip count of 2,038. Media coverage of Apache
projects yielded 3,846 press hits vs. last month's 3,214. ApacheCon received
99 press hits.

VII. Analyst Relations: we received three analyst queries. Apache was
mentioned in 17 reports by Gartner (including 1 Magic Quadrant): 4 reports by
Forrester, 10 reports by 451 Research, and 5 reports by IDC.

VIII. Graphics: no projects are in production.

IX. Events liaison: Sally continues work with ASF Conferences and ComDev
regarding upcoming Apache Community events and ApacheCon.

X. Newswire accounts: we have 8 pre-paid press releases remaining with NASDAQ
GlobeNewswire through 2018.

# # #


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Infrastructure  [David Nalley]

General
=======

Infrastructure continues to operate normally.

There is an open question for the Board to consider, regarding high
per-project expenditures. More below.

Finances
========

Infrastructure is on target for FY18, and is ready for the upcoming
budget process for FY19.

Short Term Priorities
=====================

- Begin work on a TLP server operating from within Azure.
- Investigate shared service usage by the projects, to look for and
  correct outliers consuming too many resources. In particular, we are
  looking at buildbot, Jenkins, and Travis.

Long Range Priorities
=====================

- Tooling continues for GitBox bulk moves, in order to support moving
  all ASF projects from git-wip over to GitBox during 2018.

General Activity
================
- Jenkins and Bugzilla were both upgraded on short notice, due to
  announced security vulnerabilities.
- LDAP server simplification has been finished.
- We spun up, and migrated to a new ElasticSearch cluster, which is
  used for log recording, auto-banning for overuse, and log
  searching/perusal. Our old cluster had underpowered disks and could
  not keep up with our needs.
- We operate a couple "email relays" for moving internally-generated
  email out to the world, and to our mailing lists. The old relay was
  moved off private hardware, to a pair of cloud-based VMs. This is
  part of our long-term work to improve, puppetize, and harden the
  email services provided by the Foundation.

Project Expenditures
====================

As part of our work to move away from ASF-owned hardware to
cloud-based services, we originally expected our team to migrate two
VMs associated with a single project which handle their wiki and their
forums. We placed a pause on that work, noting that these are
project-specific VMs, whereas Infrastructure normally provisions *one*
per project and expects the project to maintain (which includes
migration when necessary). An explanation, background, and concern was
raised to the VP Infrastructure and to the President about this topic.

After some discussion was held, it appears there is a question that
needs Board feedback:

If the Board wants to allow additional spend for specific projects,
specifically using Infrastructure costs beyond its budget, then what
does the Board require to make such a decision?

Historically, the Board has generally stated that projects and their
communities should be self-sufficient and receive no additional
Foundation funds to support them beyond their internal ability. If the
Board maintains this policy, then the Infrastructure team will work
with the project to develop a transition plan for these VMs and their
future maintenance by the PMC. Should the Board decide that it would
like additional Infrastructure budget assigned to one or more specific
projects, then it would seem a proposal, discussion, and decision
process would be desired. It would be expected these costs would be
called out during the budget process, as an opportunity cost against
Infrastructure's normal operational budget.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of Conferences  [Rich Bowen]

Since my last report, we have made considerable progress on ApacheCon
North America 2018. We have signed a contract with the Marriott in
Montreal, the CFP is open, and planning is moving forward. Details
about the event may be found at http://apachecon.com/acna18/

We have announced two keynotes, both of whom are Apache members doing
great things to make the word a better place - Myrle Krantz and Cliff
Schmidt.

Registration is available at that same site. A significant
Committer/Member discount will be announced on those respective
mailing lists this week (i.e., the week of this meeting.)

Additionally, we have an agreement with FOSS Backstage in Berlin to
share some of that space with them for their event in June. Details of
that event may be found at https://foss-backstage.de/  Our
participation there will be called the Apache Roadshow.

Both of these events are now listed on http://apachecon.com/ and
details are being added daily.

We had a sign at FOSDEM promoting these two events, and there was
considerable interest in both events.  

Another "Roadshow" event is in the planning phase, for North America,
later in 2018. Details should be available in next month's report.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Report from the Apache Travel Assistance Committee  [Gavin McDonald]

With the approval of ApacheCon NA in Montreal, TAC were given the 
go ahead to support the event; based on previously approved but unused 
TAC budget.

Almost immediately it was found that the VM hosting the webapp was in
need of replacement and Infra advised against using the VM, so application 
opening period was delayed by 2 days whilst migration to a new supported 
VM was carried out. Thanks go to TAC member Nick Burch and Infra for 
getting this migration done quikcly and smoothly - as a result of ...

TAC Applications are now open and will remain open until May 1st - allowing 
plenty of time for folks to decide to apply, and also gives TAC time 
afterwards to do all the other paperwork, notifying applicants, sorting 
Visas, hotels, conference passes, flights etc.

So its early in the applications open period, and we already have some 
applications in. 

Notifications were emailed to committers, to PMCs, and were tweeted and 
other media thanks to Sally and press@. 

The next couple of months is just going to be keeping up with the 
advertising of applications open, and volunteer judges (already in place) 
will start scoring applications along the way.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Report from the VP of W3C Relations  [Andy Seaborne]

Andy Seaborne, andy@, has joined the "Veres One Community Group"
(a public discussion group for decentralized identifiers).

This is the first time ASF is represented and ASF has signed the community
group agreement.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Report from the Apache Legal Affairs Committee  [Chris Mattmann]

A question regarding the Java Unit of Measure specification JSR-275 version
0.9.3 arose since it was used in versions of two ASF projects: Tika and SIS.
In reading the license for the project, a determination was made that the
dependency is Category-X as described in LEGAL-360 [1]. As described in the 
issue, newer versions of SIS use the BSD licensed version of this dependency, 
and Tika's master branch now uses this as well. As far as the committee is 
concerned, this issue is resolved. The Category-X list on the Legal/Resolved 
page should be updated by the meeting or shortly thereafter to reflect this.

In LEGAL-363 [2] a committee proposes to use CC-BY-4.0 HTML and CSS in example
code. A contributor correctly noted that CC-BY-4.0 is Category-B. Discussion
is ongoing with the latest note regarding inclusion in binary form being
acceptable if the HTML and CSS can be packaged that way.

A series of discussions regarding the role of Trademarks and Brand as they
relate to the Legal committee occured as part of the Five Year vision Board
discussion that is ongoing, related to the 5 year budget planning activity.
These discussions led to a number of specific actions taking place.

First, a resolution was dicussed and originally posted in this agenda for
consideration by the Board that made clear that the Legal committee should be
the only committee interacting with our counsel at the ASF.  There were a few
concerns related to the resolution and it became clear that its inclusion at
this point in time was premature.

The Legal Committee recommends that the Board make clear at some future date
either the explicit delegation of Legal authority to speak with counsel to the
Brand committee (and its role in Trademarks) or identify that in fact Brand
(and Trademarks) is part of Legal overall.

As part of this discovery process into the relationship between Legal and
Brand/Trademarks, VP, Legal met with two lawyers - one external offering
(potentially volunteer) help - and also a meeting with our pro bono counsel to
receive recommendations about managing our Trademark portfolio. Both of these
meetings generated quite a bit of notes which were summarized and passed along
to trademarks@, operations@ and board@.

Please note a resolution to cull the members of the Legal Affairs committee
to those that responded to my opt-in request earlier to legal-internal@ and
to those actively participating. I am also proposing to add Shane Curcuru and
Mark Thomas to the committee - both - as members of the Brand Committee and 
Trademarks are involved in Legal issues and having them vested as full members 
of the Legal committee makes sense in this regard. I have consulted with both 
of them prior to including the resolution.

Finally, I am making the announcement that I will be stepping down from the
position of VP, Legal after the upcoming Apache members meeting. Thank you for
the opportunity to be VP Legal. I plan on filing one last report last month
before officially resigning.


[1] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/LEGAL-360
[2] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/LEGAL-363


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Report from the Apache Security Team Project  [Mark J. Cox]

The new system for handling incoming issues implemented in January is
working very well.  This, along with extra time commitment from
security team members every day. has led to all incoming issues being
dispatched within 24 hours (and often much less).  In the past it
could take a day or two, and the occasional issue would get mislaid
and could weeks.  We've implemented automated scripts for tracking
metrics and therefore stats of the number of issues for months of both
December and January are included this time.

* As of 2018-02-01 there were 142 open issues across 59 projects with
  median age 89 days.   (From 185 issues, 61 projects, 134 days
  on 2018-01-01).  We continue to work on the older issues, many
  of which were released but never completed fully, or non-issues
  that were not closed correctly.

Stats for January 2018.

      10      [license confusion]
      9       [support request/question not security notification]

      Security reports: 66

      4       [httpd]
      3       [hive]
      3       [couchdb]
      3       [tomcat]
      3       [infrastructure]
      2       [incubator/taverna]
      2       [geode]
      2       [lucene]
      2       [ambari]
      2       [cordova]
      2       [openoffice]
      2       [qpid]
      2       [sling]
      2       [spamassassin]
      2       [struts]
      1 each  [allura],[ant],[axis],[bookkeeper],[camel],[cloudstack]
              [commons],[datafu],[eagle],,[fineract],[flink],[hadoop]
              [incubator/skywalking],[incubator/spot],[kafka],[livy]
              [mesos],[metron],[myriad],[ode],[predictionio],[samza]
              [storm],[tomee],[vcl],[weex],[whimsy],[ws],[xerces],[yetus]

(Note there is a slight spike in incoming issues as we include the new
github automated notifications -- although most of these are benign and
closed quickly)

Stats for December 2017.

      11      [support request/question not security notification]
      7       [license confusion]
      1       [confused why our web sites have open directories, source code etc]

      Security reports: 38

      5       [httpd]
      4       [incubator/airflow]
      2       [hadoop]
      2       [openoffice]
      2       [struts]
      1 each  [activemq],[deltaspike],[flink],[fluo],[groovy],[ignite]
              [incubator/mxnet],[jackrabbit],[kudo],[mina],[ofbiz]
              [openmeetings],[qpid],[ranger],[sling],[synapse],[tomcat]
              [trafficserver],[weex],[whimsy],[wicket],[yarn],[zeppelin]

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Report from the Apache Ambari Project  [Yusaku Sako]

## Description:

- Apache Ambari simplifies provisioning, managing, and monitoring of Apache
   Hadoop clusters.

## Issues:

- There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
- Since the last report, the community switched over from the previous
   reviewboard-based development flow to a more streamlined Github PR model
   via Gitbox.  The Apache Infra team was very responsive and helped make a
   smooth transition.
   Ambari 2.6.1 was released with 123 issues resolved to stabilize the 2.6 line.
   Development activity for the upcoming 2.7 and 3.0 versions remain high.
   3.0 includes major architectural changes to cleanly separate the
   Ambari core and the managed stack/service definitions via management
   packs.  We hope that this would facilitate and encourage contributions from
   the community.  Other major work, such as UI revamp, UX improvement,
   addressing scalability and responsiveness via websockets, additional
   support for various security environments, etc., have been happening in
   parallel as well.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 45 PMC members.
- Swapan Shridhar was added to the PMC on Wed Dec 06 2017

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 98 committers.
- Prabhjyot Singh was added as a committer on Tue Feb 06 2018

## Releases:

- 2.6.1 was released on Sun Dec 17 2017

## Mailing list activity:

- dev@ambari.apache.org:
    - 300 subscribers (up 15 in the last 3 months):
    - 139 emails sent to list (62 in previous quarter)

- issues@ambari.apache.org:
    - 44 subscribers (up 3 in the last 3 months):
    - 4231 emails sent to list (6182 in previous quarter)

- reviews@ambari.apache.org:
    - 59 subscribers (up 12 in the last 3 months):
    - 974 emails sent to list (1647 in previous quarter)

- user@ambari.apache.org:
    - 495 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months):
    - 50 emails sent to list (95 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

- 538 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
- 436 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Report from the Apache Ant Project  [Jan Materne]

## Description:
Apache Ant is a Java based build tool along with associated tools. It consists
of 3 main projects:
 - Ant - core and libraries (AntLibs)
 - Ivy - Ant based dependency manager
 - IvyDE - Eclipse plugin to integrate Ivy into Eclipse Additionally Ant
   provides several extensions to Ant (antlibs).

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
First steps on supporting Java10 (e.g. removal of javah, detecting newer JDK
versions).

Ant recieved a security issue "Ant 1.9.9 and 1.10.1 - log4j 1.2.13 security
vulnerability?" on 08.01.2018. https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-5645
In Apache Log4j 2.x before 2.8.2, when using the TCP socket server or UDP
socket server to receive serialized log events from another application, a
specially crafted binary payload can be sent that, when deserialized, can
execute arbitrary code. Ant lists impacted versions as dependencies. We
deprecated that the Log4jListener as log4j 1.2 is not developed any more. We
provided documentation of how to use the Log4j 1.2 Bridge or write a custom
listener.

New releases with a 'bugfix' were released on 07.02.2018. Announcement of the
vulnerability was done on 07.02.2018.

The Ant project welcomes Jaikiran Pai as a new PMC member.

## Health report:

For Ant we feel healthy enough to apply patches, and get a release done. But
basically we are in "maintenance mode". There isn't much development.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 22 PMC members.
 - Jaikiran Pai was added to the PMC on Tue Jan 16 2018

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 30 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Gintas Grigelionis at Sat Aug 05 2017

## Releases:

 - Ant 1.10.2 was released on Tue Feb 06 2018
 - Ant 1.9.10 was released on Tue Feb 06 2018


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Report from the Apache Axis Project  [Robert Lazarski]

# Apache Axis2 Board Report

## Description

The Apache Axis project is responsible for the creation and maintenance of
software related to the Axis Web Services frameworks and subsidiary components
(both Java and C).

## Issues

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity

- Axis2 Java 1.7.7 (stable)
  - Maintenance only.

- Axis2 Java 1.8 (development)

- Axis2 C 1.7 (development)

## Health report:
We have enough PMC to cut releases. Axis2 is a mature project, but still
actively maintained. We continue to receive patches from various new
users/contributors.

Axis2 Java put out several releases in 2017. Lately the focus has been
responding to mailing list questions and Jira issues concerning end users
automated penetration testing by various 3rd party tools.

Axis2 C has had commits and discussions in the last 30 days concerning
migrating the Guththila tests to GTest.

## PMC/Committer changes:
 - Currently 63 PMC/Commiters members.
 - No new committers were added in the last 30 days, last commiter added on
   December 7th 2017.
## Releases:
 - Axis 2/Java 1.7.7 was released on November 22, 2017.
 - Axis 2/C 1.6 was released on April 20, 2009.

## JIRA Activity

- 3 JIRA tickets created in the last month.
- 2 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Report from the Apache BookKeeper Project  [Sijie Guo]

## Description:

BookKeeper is a scalable, fault-tolerant, and low-latency storage
service optimized for append-only workloads. It has been used as
a fundamental service to build high available and replicated services
in companies like Twitter, Yahoo and Salesforce. It is also the log
segment store for Apache DistributedLog and message store for Apache Pulsar.

Apache DistributedLog is a high-level API and service layer for
Apache BookKeeper, providing easier access to the BookKeeper
primitives. It is a subproject of Apache BookKeeper.

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - 4.6.0 was released on 27th December 2017.
 - 4.6.1 was released on 30th January 2018
 - Continued work on merging changes from yahoo and salesforce changes
   into apache master. The development work is converging into apache master.
 - DistributedLog is merging as modules in BookKeeper. This will improve user
   experiences and simpilify release procedure.
 - The number of BookKeeper proposals are increasing, due to increased
   contributions.
   - LedgerType, Flags and StorageHints
   - Bookie Scanner to improve data integrity
   - Ledger Balancer

## Health report:

 - Development continues at a steady pace. We are merging multiple PRs per day
   on average.
 - Mailing list and slack discussions are brisk, in particularly around the
   active projects.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 13 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Dave Rusek on Mon Aug 07 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 19 committers.
 - Yiming Zang was added as a committer on Sat Dec 09 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 4.6.1 on 30th January 2018
 - Last release of DistributedLog was 0.5.0 on September 17 2017

## Mailing list activity:

A good number of merged contributions is introducing the mailing
list activity.

Consolidate efforts coming from DistributedLog graduation as
subproject. More contributor/committer engagement cause that
increased of mailing list activities.

 - dev@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 98 subscribers (up 7 in the last 3 months):
    - 241 emails sent to list (1345 in previous quarter)

 - distributedlog-commits@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 12 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 11 emails sent to list (106 in previous quarter)

 - distributedlog-dev@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 41 subscribers (down -3 in the last 3 months):
    - 12 emails sent to list (216 in previous quarter)

 - distributedlog-issues@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 9 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 204 emails sent to list (344 in previous quarter)

 - distributedlog-user@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 25 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months):
    - 12 emails sent to list (30 in previous quarter)

 - issues@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 7 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months):
    - 3996 emails sent to list (1846 in previous quarter)

 - user@bookkeeper.apache.org:
    - 107 subscribers (up 5 in the last 3 months):
    - 33 emails sent to list (21 in previous quarter)

## Github activity

 - 276 Github issues created in the last 3 months
 - 258 Github issues closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 - 195 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months
 - 192 Github Pull Requests closed/resolved in the last 3 month


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Report from the Apache Brooklyn Project  [Richard Downer]

## Description:
- Apache Brooklyn Project is a software framework for modelling, monitoring
  and managing cloud applications through autonomic blueprints.

## Issues:
- Other than a resolution to change the PMC chair (see below), there are no
  issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
- Development continues with a regular turnover of pull requests submitted and
  merged.
- We have discussed possible Google Summer of Code projects, and two such
  projects were nominated for GSoC.
- I (Richard Downer) have announced my desire to step down as PMC chair, once
  the PMC have nominated a successor. The PMC voted to recommend Geoff
  Macartney (geomacy) as the new PMC Chair. A resolution to this effect has
  been added to the agenda for this board meeting.

## Health report:
- The project continues with a similar level of activity that we have seen
  recently. There is a regular turnover of pull requests and commits, and JIRA
  tickets, showing that development is at a healthy pace and that users are
  feeding back their problems and feature suggestions.
- We continue to monitor our community for potential new committers and PMC
  members with the aim of regularly adding individuals. On this occasion,
  there have been no new appointments since our last report.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 15 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Thomas Bouron on Tue Oct 31 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 15 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Thomas Bouron at Wed Oct 04 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 0.12.0 on Wed Sep 27 2017

## JIRA activity:

 - 31 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 20 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Report from the Apache Buildr Project  [Antoine Toulme]

## Description: 
Apache Buildr is a build system for Java-based applications, including
support for Scala, Groovy and a growing number of JVM languages and
tools. We wanted something that’s simple and intuitive to use, so
we only need to tell it what to do, and it takes care of the rest.
But also something we can easily extend for those one-off tasks, with
a language that’s a joy to use. And of course, we wanted it to be
fast, reliable and have outstanding dependency management.
   

## Issues:
 There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

 
## Activity:
 The project is moving at a slow pace with a few commits in the last months.
   
## Health report:
The project has been stable for a long while and the space of build tools for
 Java projects has been overall stagnant for a number of years.
   
## PMC changes:
   
 - Currently 7 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Peter Donald on Tue Oct 15 2013
   
## Committer base changes:
   
 - Currently 9 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Tammo van Lessen at Fri Aug 08 2014
   
## Releases:
   
 - Last release was 1.5.5 on Dec 5th 2017


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Report from the Apache Cassandra Project  [Nate McCall]

## Description:

The Apache Cassandra database is the right choice when you need scalability
and high availability without compromising performance. Linear scalability and
proven fault-tolerance on commodity hardware or cloud infrastructure make it
the perfect platform for mission-critical data.Cassandra's support for
replicating across multiple datacenters is best-in-class, providing lower
latency for your users and the peace of mind of knowing that you can survive
regional outages.

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

We have had a major refactoring of our distributed test infrastructure to
modernize the underlying python API and provide for a much higher degree of
parallelism in test execution. This should pay off quickly in an faster
development cycle for fixing more nuanced issues common in a distributed
database.

We received a vulnerability report this quarter that was more a
mis-understanding of how internode communication and security works with a
default installation. The only action needed was an update of our
documentation with specific details on mitigating this issue through correct
setup of security configuration options.

We continue to maintain four active branches as well as working towards our
eventual goal of releasing 4.0. Though the changelog for this next version is
becoming quite long, we are not under any pressure from external vendors and
are therefore taking "as long as is needed" to release something stable that
committers and contributors are comfortable running in production (and thus
comfortable recommending such to users). Given our project's track record of
"it's not stable until X.X.6," we feel strongly that this is the correct
 approach.

## Health report:

Overall the project is healthy. We've seen several new contributors recently
working on core components such as compaction and storage.

## PMC changes:

There are currently 24 PMC members. No new PMC members have been added in the
last 3 months. The last PMC addition was Jon Haddad on Sun Aug 20 2017

## Committer base changes:

There are currently 47 committers. No new committers have been added in the
last 3 months. The last committer addition was Jon Haddad at Sat Aug 19 2017.

## Releases:

The last release was 3.0.15 on Tue Oct 10 2017. However, we just opened a vote
on releasing bug fixes across the following active branches: 2.1.20,
2.2.12, 3.0.16, and 3.11.2.

## Mailing list activity:

Subscriptions for dev@ have gone up, potentially reflecting more participation
from newer contributors. We attribute the downward trend in messages sent to
the holiday period this quarter.

dev@cassandra.apache.org:
- 1630 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months):
- 189 emails sent to list (340 in previous quarter)

pr@cassandra.apache.org:
- 10 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
- 149 emails sent to list (110 in previous quarter)

user@cassandra.apache.org:
- 3093 subscribers (down -11 in the last 3 months):
- 894 emails sent to list (1109 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

- 218 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
- 134 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Report from the Apache Clerezza Project  [Hasan Hasan]

DESCRIPTION 
Apache Clerezza models the RDF abstract syntax in Java and provides supports
for serializing, parsing, and managing triple collections, as well as a tool
to generate the source code of a Java class with constants for an ontology
described in RDF. Apache Clerezza components are OSGi-based and have the
purpose to ease building of Semantic Web applications and services.

ISSUES FOR THE BOARD 
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

RELEASE 
Latest release was partial-release-201604 created on May 13, 2016.
A question of the board to the previous report was
  jj: What is a "partial-release-201604"??

The release is called a partial release, because only some modules
of the whole Apache Clerezza libraries are released.

ACTIVITY
- Aaron Coburn resolved CLEREZZA-1022 (Use the official OSGi annotations 
instead of Felix annotations).
- Aaron Coburn also created a pull request to upgrade the test suite to 
JUnit 5 (CLEREZZA-1023).
- Reto G. fixed the root POM which missed some modules (CLEREZZA-1024).
- Reto G. merged the repo clerezza-rdf-core into clerezza branch called 
'reunited' as a first step to provide a new release.
- A tutorial to use Apache Clerezza Serializer was added to the website.

COMMUNITY 
Latest change was addition of a new committer and PMC member on 16.08.2013.

INFRASTRUCTURE 
Latest update of the Apache Clerezza Website was in February 2018.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Report from the Apache Cocoon Project  [Cédric Damioli]

## Description:
  Web development framework: separation of concerns, component-based.

## Issues:
  there are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:

  The most recent release is 2.1.12 on 2013-03-14 No JIRA issues opened nor
  resolved since last report. There's only a little activity on both users and
  dev mailing-lists (a question was asked on the users list and answered by a
  committer). The project is mainly in maintenance mode.

  There have been some quite interesting changes since last release, at least
  for 2.1 branch, which would deserve a release. We issued the same statement
  last quarter but noone launched the process yet.


## PMC changes:
  None. Most recent addition: 2012-07-06

## Committer base changes:
  None. Most recent addition: 2012-07-06


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Report from the Apache Community Development Project  [Sharan Foga]

## Description:

The Community Development PMC is responsible for helping people become
involved with Apache projects

## Issues:

No issues require board attention at the moment.

## Activity:

During the last quarter our main focus on promoting the ASF by participation
in several events. We have found that this means that we are working more with
Sally for advice and feedback regarding marketing and publicity at these
external events.

Open Source Summit Paris

In December, we participated at the Open Source Summit in Paris. The event
attracts around 6000 attendees and we were given a free booth and a half day
track. Our ASF track presentations were were a mix of French and English and
attendance numbers varied from around 10 to 30.(Room size was 35 people max).
We had a lot of booth traffic and discussions and it showed that we still have
some work to do in promoting what Apache is and does to the French community.
Thanks very much to our speakers (Bertrand, Luciano, Martin, Ismael, and
Olivier) and to everyone who helped out on the booth. It was a great event to
be involved in and hope that we get invited to participate again next year.

Apache Business Cards

Following a mailing list discussion a couple of months ago we have helped
facilitate the introduction of Apache business cards that anyone involved with
Apache projects can use when they are promoting their Apache project at an
event or representing their Apache project. Two formats are agreed, one that
is a formal ASF role card that is based card n the existing ASF business
cards, and another less formal community business card. The main difference
between the two cards is that the official role card needs to contain your
official role at Apache e.g. Board Member, Officer of the Foundation, Member,
PMC Member, VP of a project or an Apache Committer) and include an apache.org
email address. The Apache Community Business Card can contain all the official
roles as well as other role descriptions e,g. Developer, Contributor. It can
also include other details related to involvement in Apache such as PGP key
and does not need to include an apache.org email address. This means that
contributors who are not yet committers may be able to use the card. For
convenience we have created an ASF account with moo.com where people can order
business cards in both formats. People do not have to order business cards
from MOO, they can choose another supplier. A wiki page with information and
FAQs about the business cards has been setup on the ComDev wiki.

OpenExpo

Following our participation last year we have been invited to participate
again in 2018. This time we have been given a keynote (Jim has volunteered to
do this) and other presentation slots that could help us promote Apache within
Spain and the Spanish speaking community. An e-Book featuring articles from
several people from with Apache is due to be published soon. Thanks very much
to Sally for managing and co-ordinating the preparation of articles. Also
Ignasi has taken on the lead co-ordination role for this event.

ApacheCon NA and Apache EU Roadshow

Announcements have been made for ApacheCon NA in Montreal and the Apache EU
Roadshow in Berlin. Community development will be providing support for both
events, and will also continue to help market and promote both events.

GSoC

The ASF has registered to be a mentoring organisation and projects have been
asked to start recording their ideas for tasks on the ComDev JIRA or labelling
them with the GSoC tag Community Sponsor Developer Week Conference- The ASF
were offered some free and discounted tickets in return for a short blog post
and a social media tweet.

## PMC changes:
  -  Currently 24 PMC members.
  - Ignasi Barrera was added on Tue 30 Jan 2018
  -  Piergiorgio Lucidi was added on Wed Nov 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 25 committers.
 - Ignasi Barrera was added on Tue 30 Jan 2018
 - Piergiorgio Lucidi was added on Wed Nov 2017

## Releases:

 - No release data could be found

## Mailing list activity:

Some mailing list activity has increased partly due to the re-direction of the
ComDev JIRA notifications to the dev mailing list. There has also been some
clean up of old JIRA tickets and also projects have started to register their
GSoC ideas on JIRA. We Will continue to monitor the number of JIRA emails
coming to the dev list to see if it is manageable.

 - dev@community.apache.org:
    - 803 subscribers (up 17 in the last 3 months):
    - 546 emails sent to list (548 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

Some cleanup of old tickets has been done which is wny the closed/resolved
figure is high.

 - 28 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 93 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Report from the Apache CouchDB Project  [Jan Lehnardt]

## Description:

- A database with seamless multi-master sync, that scales from Big Data
  to Mobile, with an Intuitive HTTP/JSON API and designed for Reliability.
   
## Issues:

 - there are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Activity:

 - As per trademarks@, “CouchDB” is now a USPTO registered trademark.
   The project thanks Shane Curcuru for his perseverance in getting this
   resolved.
 - The severe CVEs reported in the last report are in the news again this
   month, as hackers are using it to install cryptocurrency miners. From
   a project perspective, there isn’t much more we could do to reach out
   to users (short of scanning the internet ourselves), but we continue
   to discuss better community engagement strategies, so more users do
   update in case of severe security issues (however futile the situation,
   we’re still hopeful we can improve).
 - Clarified PR-merge policy after an (in the end harmless) incident that
   saw a seemingly semver-major change hit master where two employees from
   a single contributing employer proposed and approved a PR. We now wait
   72 hours for semver-major PRs hitting master or release branches.

## Health report:

 - CouchDB issue #745 is currently binding most of the project’s resources,
   and impacts a number of higher-profiler users. Progress is steady, but
   slow. A new release is planned with the future fix, which will also
   address a number of issues left after the last 2.1.1 release.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 15 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Nick Vatamaniuc on Tue Nov 07 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 62 committers.
 - New commmitters:
    - Alexis Côté was added as a committer on Thu Nov 30 2017
    - Antonio Maranhao was added as a committer on Wed Dec 06 2017


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Report from the Apache Creadur Project  [Brian E Fox]

Apache Creadur creates and maintains a suite of open source software related
to the auditing and comprehension of software distributions. Any language and
build system are welcomed.

Status
------
Creadur is primarily used by other Apache projects to help check for
conformity to ASF standards. This is why the project team is primarily
comprised of members and committers from other ASF projects.  The risk
of the project foundering is therefore very low despite the ongoing
lack of progress. If someone has an itch to scratch, it will no doubt
get fixed.

Community
---------
In September 2016 Karl Heinz Marbaise was elected to join the PMC / Commit.


Releases
--------
Apache Rat 0.12 was released in June, 2016
Apache Rat 0.11 was released in August, 2014
Apache Rat 0.10 was released in September, 2013.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Report from the Apache DeltaSpike Project  [Mark Struberg]

## Description:
 Apache DeltaSpike is  a suite of portable CDI (Contexts & Dependency
 Injection) extensions intended to make application development easier when
 working with CDI and Java EE.  Some of its key features include:

 - A core runtime that supports component configuration, type safe messaging
   and internationalization, and exception handling.
 - A suite of utilities to make programmatic bean lookup easier.
 - A plugin for Java SE to bootstrap both JBoss Weld and Apache OpenWebBeans
   outside of a container.
 - JSF integration, including backporting of JSF 2.2 features for Java EE 6.
 - JPA integration and transaction support.
 - A Data module, to create an easy to use repository pattern on top of JPA.
 - Quartz integration

 Testing support is also provided, to allow you to do low level unit testing of
 your CDI enabled projects.

## Issues:
 There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity: 
 Activity went up to standard level again. We had a CVE reported and resolved
 in decent time.
 
## Health report: 
 Community feels responsive. We have a good level of different people
 reacting to user questions and bug reports. 
  
## PMC changes: 
  
 - Currently 19 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Harald Wellmann on Thu May 19 2016 
  
## Committer base changes: 
  
 - Currently 33 committers. 
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months 
 - Last committer addition was Matej Novotny at Fri Jun 03 2016 
  
## Releases: 
  
 - 1.8.1 was released on Mon Jan 01 2018 
  
## Mailing list activity: 
  
  
 - users@deltaspike.apache.org:  
   - 186 subscribers (down -3 in the last 3 months): 
   - 82 emails sent to list (27 in previous quarter) 
  
 - dev@deltaspike.apache.org:  
   - 104 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months): 
   - 227 emails sent to list (79 in previous quarter) 
  
  
## JIRA activity: 
  
 - 15 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 20 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
  

-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Report from the Apache DRAT Project  [Chris Mattmann]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Report from the Apache Drill Project  [Aman Sinha]

## Description:
 - Drill is a Schema-free SQL Query Engine for Hadoop, NoSQL and Cloud Storage

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 - Since the last board report, Drill has released version 1.12.0. The
   following is a partial list of new features/enhancements that were added in
   addition to many other bug fixes:
    - Kafka and OpenTSDB Storage Plugins.
    - Queue-Based memory assignment for buffering operators (Throttling).
    - Networking Functions.
    - SSL Support.
    - Network Encryption Support.
    - System options improvements, including a new internal system options
      table.
    - Access to paths outside the current workspace.
 - Drill completed a substantial effort to rebase on Apache Calcite 1.15
   (previously, Drill was using Calcite 1.4 along with several cherry-picked
   changes on top).  An upcoming release 1.13 will contain the result of this
   work.

## Health report:
 - The project is healthy. Development activity as reflected in the pull
   requests and JIRAs is good.  Activity on the dev mailing list continues to
   be strong.  Activity on the user mailing list had a decline compared to
   prior reporting period possibly due to the holiday season. Two new
   committers and one new PMC member were added in the last period.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 19 PMC members.
 - Paul Rogers was added to the PMC on Mon Jan 29 2018

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 40 committers.
 - New commmitters:
    - Boaz Ben-Zvi was added as a committer on Tue Dec 12 2017
    - Vitalii Diravka was added as a committer on Sat Dec 09 2017

## Releases:

 - 1.12.0 was released on Thu Dec 14 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@drill.apache.org:
    - 445 subscribers (down -6 in the last 3 months):
    - 2185 emails sent to list (2665 in previous quarter)

 - issues@drill.apache.org:
    - 19 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 2993 emails sent to list (3486 in previous quarter)

 - user@drill.apache.org:
    - 612 subscribers (down -4 in the last 3 months):
    - 186 emails sent to list (435 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

 - 195 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 124 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Report from the Apache Empire-db Project  [Rainer Döbele]

## Description: 
 - Apache Empire-db is a relational database access engine that takes an 
   SQL-centric approach in contrast to object-relational-mapping like with JPA
   
## Issues: 
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time
   
## Activity: 
 - Several code improvements and one bugfix have been submitted since the last 
   report
 - One committer has submitted a new example project that demonstrates how to 
   utilize empire-db data model metadata with a JavaScript application 
   frontend built with vue.js and a REST Service. However, this projects needs 
   to be further worked on before it can be released
 - We have set two major goals for 2018 which might help to possibly attract
   new users and committers: First we want to publish a new release to 
   include the various improvements and bugfixes that have been collected since
   our last release. Second the project website should finally be redesigned in
   2018 to make it more attractive to users, both regarding design and 
   information content.
   
## Health report: 
 - The project remains healthy albeit low activity. As requested by the board 
   last time, we have asked PMC-members on the private list to confirm whether 
   or not they are still active an engaged with the project. Seven members 
   (including the chair) have responded, but three members have said that while
   they would still read emails, they are not actively engaged any more. 
   Four members (Jan, Dimitar, Ivan and Rainer) have said to be still engaged 
   with the project. We are aware that those numbers are not great and that we 
   have to find ways to attract new committers again.
   
## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 10 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Jan Glaubitz on Sun Jul 10 2016 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 9 committers. 
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months 
 - Last committer addition was Jan Glaubitz at Mon Oct 05 2015 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - Last release was 2.4.6 on Tue Jan 17 2017 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - dev@empire-db.apache.org:  
    - 37 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months): 
    - 26 emails sent to list (2 in previous quarter) 
   
 - user@empire-db.apache.org:  
    - 55 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months): 
    - 1 emails sent to list (0 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 6 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 3 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Report from the Apache Flume Project  [Mike Percy]

## Description:

Apache Flume is a distributed, reliable, and available system for efficiently
collecting, aggregating, and moving large amounts of log data to scalable data
storage systems such as Apache Hadoop's HDFS.

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - Upstream discussion began on a Flume 2.0 release which will allow us to
   make some minor but important API breaking changes as well as upgrade some
   dependencies.
 - Created a 1.x branch from trunk. Trunk is now destined to be 2.0.
 - There was some discussion of implementing classloader isolation for Flume
   plugins.

## Health report:

 - Over the last several months, it was observed that the dev list was being
   used less because of so much JIRA traffic. This quarter we moved JIRA
   traffic off the dev@ list and onto a dedicated list issues@ list to improve
   the usability of the dev list. This has been subjectively successful and we
   will continue to monitor the results over the next few months.

## PMC / committer changes:

 - No new PMC or committers added in the last 3 months
 - Currently 23 PMC members, 31 committers
 - Last PMC addition was Denes Arvay on Sun Nov 05 2017
 - Last committer additions were Attila Simon and Ferenc Szabo on Sat Nov 04
   2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 1.8.0 on Tue Oct 03 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 - Change in mailing list traffic per health report.
 - dev@flume.apache.org:
    - 291 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months)
    - 175 emails sent to list (519 in previous quarter)
 - issues@flume.apache.org:
    - 9 subscribers (up 9 in the last 3 months)
    - 89 emails sent to list (0 in previous quarter)
 - user@flume.apache.org:
    - 680 subscribers (down -9 in the last 3 months)
    - 15 emails sent to list (38 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 22 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 14 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Report from the Apache Forrest Project  [David Crossley]

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None.

Changes in the PMC membership:
  None.
  Last modified: 2017-10-09
  Most recent addition: 2009-06-09

New committers:
  None.
  Most recent addition: 2009-06-09
  None on the horizon.

General status:
  The most recent release is 0.9 on 2011-02-07.

  No activity on the user mail list. However it never gets used much anyway.

  Some minor activity on the issue tracker and dev list as an old committer
  returned.

  Three PMC members were present during the quarter.

  At this report, one other PMC member responded to my draft report.
  This confirms that there are sufficient people hanging around for us to
  potentially be able to make a decision or encourage new contributors.

Project status:
  Activity: *Low
  3+ people have indicated presence, so has sufficient oversight.

  There was a little discussion about project status, indicating that the
  project is happy to stay as we are, with sufficient members being present
  to be able to make a decision if needed.

  In the recent past there some concern expressed that my method for
  assessing whether there are sufficient people present does not equate to
  whether there are sufficient for actual oversight. No better method was
  yet proposed.

Security issues published:
  None.

Progress of the project:
  Tweaks to stylesheets to address an old issue.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Report from the Apache Geode Project  [Mark Bretl]

## Description:

 - Apache Geode provides a database-like consistency model, reliable
   transaction processing and a shared-nothing architecture to maintain very
   low latency performance with high concurrency processing.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention.

## Activity:

 - Released Apache Geode 1.4 with 288 resolved tickets, including the
   following improvements:
    - Added a JDBC connector
    - Introduced an improved eviction algorithm
    - Added Lucene indexing/searching for nested objects
    - Added new examples
    - Provided blacklist/whitelist capability for Java serialization
    - Several additions and improvements to the gfsh CLI utility
 - The SpringOne Platform conference in December 2017 included 12 talks on
   Apache Geode
  ([https://springoneplatform.io/geode](https://springoneplatform.io/geode)).
    The talks were given by users and developers of Geode, covering uses
    cases, extensions, and integration stories.  All the talks were
    well-attended and the afternoon sessions the first day were
    standing-room-only.

## Health report:

 - We’re continuing to work on attracting new contributors and making it
   easier to participate in the community.
 - Mailing list activity is healthy.
 - Work has started toward the next Geode 1.5.0 release, with a plan to
   include improvements in usability and security.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 43 PMC members.
 - New PMC members:
    - Michael W. Dodge was added to the PMC on Tue Jan 23 2018
    - Brian Rowe was added to the PMC on Tue Jan 23 2018

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 88 committers.
 - New commmitters:
    - Michael W. Dodge was added as a committer on Wed Jan 24 2018
    - Brian Rowe was added as a committer on Wed Jan 24 2018


## Releases:

 - 1.4.0 was released on Fri Jan 26 2018, including new features, examples,
   and bug fixes.
    - Release notes: https://cw
      iki.apache.org/confluence/display/GEODE/Release+Notes#ReleaseNotes-1.4.0
    - Release artifacts: http://geode.apache.org/releases/
    - Release documentation:
      http://geode.apache.org/docs/guide/14/about_geode.html

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@geode.apache.org:
    - 176 subscribers (down -2 in the last 3 months):
    - 734 emails sent to list (1784 in previous quarter)
 - issues@geode.apache.org:
    - 54 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months):
    - 5677 emails sent to list (4632 in previous quarter)
 - user@geode.apache.org:
    - 240 subscribers (up 5 in the last 3 months):
    - 253 emails sent to list (225 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 677 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 495 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Report from the Apache Giraph Project  [Avery Ching]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Report from the Apache Gora Project  [Lewis John McGibbney]

## Description:
The Apache Gora™ open source framework provides an in-memory data model and
persistence for big data. Gora supports persisting to column stores, key value
stores, document stores, distributed in-memory key/value stores, in-memory
data grids, in-memory caches, distributed multi-model stores, and hybrid
in-memory architectures. Gora also enables analysis of data with extensive
Apache Hadoop MapReduce and Apache Spark support.

## Issues:
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
Activity has been pretty slow, we have a major pull request which is under
community review. Once that is addressed, we will most likely make some module
dependency updates and push our next release.

## Health report:
The project is healthy. Most activity and development is by exsiting core
committers which is normal for Gora.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 25 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Madhawa Kasun Gunasekara on Fri Sep 22 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 25 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Madhawa Kasun Gunasekara at Thu Sep 21 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 0.8 on Mon Sep 18 2017

## Mailing list activity:

All the stats below are in line with historical trends.

 - dev@gora.apache.org:
    - 73 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 59 emails sent to list (379 in previous quarter)

 - user@gora.apache.org:
    - 78 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 5 emails sent to list (43 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

 - 3 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 4 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Report from the Apache Groovy Project  [Guillaume Laforge]

Groovy board report for February

## Description:

Apache Groovy is a multi-faceted programming language for the Java platform.
Groovy is a powerful, optionally typed and dynamic language, with static-
typing and static compilation capabilities, aimed at multiplying developers’
productivity thanks to a concise, familiar and easy to learn syntax. It
integrates smoothly with any Java program, and immediately delivers to your
application powerful features, including scripting capabilities, Domain-
Specific Language authoring, first class functional programming support and
runtime and compile-time meta-programming.

## Issues:

There is one point of interest and one on-going issue.

 - Groovy recognition program: The wider Groovy community has expressed a
   keen interest in creating a recognition scheme (perhaps called Groovy
   Stars or Groovy Champions) to recognise major past and present
   contributions across the many projects within the Groovy ecosystem. It is
   anticipated that the scheme would operate in a similar fashion to the
   fairly widely known Java Champions scheme for Java[1]. The Apache Groovy
   project is now also discussing this proposal[2]. At this point, no board
   action is required but we'd welcome any feedback and we'll escalate if
   needed depending on how the proposal unfolds. We'll be endeavouring to
   ensure that should the scheme go ahead it will meet all requirements from
   the Apache side from a branding/trademarks point of view.

   [1] https://community.oracle.com/community/java/java-champions
   [2]
https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/c9d04fa6f1a8f    4357bc48f14f974c4eb139bc4d1c2c16c3d6c14f0a7@%3Cusers.groovy.apache.org%3E

 - Website migration: An additional step to completing the website migration
   was done. The website had custom embedded Nabble integration which has
   been disabled in favor of using the normal Nabble UI on their site and
   instead more actively promoting lists.apache.org (Apache Pony Mail). Final
   steps can now commence to complete the migration.

## Activity:

 - This quarter, 322 commits were contributed from 11 contributors including
   6 non-committer contributors (1 new).
 - The project crossed over 50 million downloads for the 2017 calendar year.

## Health report:

 - Our release train velocity has been maintained, and there seems to be a
   healthy level of discussion about project direction on the mailing lists.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 10 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was John Wagenleitner on Sun Apr 02 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 18 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Sergei Egorov at Thu Dec 08 2016

## Releases:

 - 2.4.13 was released on Thu Nov 23 2017
 - 2.6.0-alpha-2 was released on Wed Nov 15 2017
 - 3.0.0-alpha-1 was released on Wed Nov 29 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 - users@groovy.apache.org:
    - 415 subscribers (down -4 in the last 3 months):
    - 207 emails sent to list (113 in previous quarter)

 - dev@groovy.apache.org:
    - 235 subscribers (down -9 in the last 3 months):
    - 541 emails sent to list (201 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 97 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 52 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Report from the Apache Guacamole Project  [Mike Jumper]

## Description:
 - Apache Guacamole is a clientless remote desktop gateway which supports
   standard protocols like VNC, RDP, and SSH. We call it "clientless" because
   no plugins or client software are required. Once Guacamole is installed on
   a server, all you need to access your desktops is a web browser.

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
 - 0.9.14 has been released.
 - RADIUS support merged, SAML support now under development.
 - CI builds added to ASF Jenkins instance.

## Health report:
 - The project is operating in a healthy manner. No significant changes in the
   last month. Development and community involvement continue to be active.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 9 PMC members.
 - Carl Harris was added to the PMC on Sun Nov 19 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 10 committers.
 - Carl Harris was added as a committer on Thu Nov 16 2017

## Releases:

 - 0.9.14 was released on Wed Jan 17 2018

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@guacamole.apache.org:
    - 70 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months):
    - 661 emails sent to list (558 in previous quarter)

 - user@guacamole.apache.org:
    - 280 subscribers (down -6 in the last 3 months):
    - 618 emails sent to list (589 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

 - 72 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 90 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Report from the Apache Hama Project  [Chia-Hung Lin]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Report from the Apache HTTP Server Project  [Daniel Gruno]

## Description:
 - The Apache HTTP Server Project is an effort to develop and maintain an
   open-source HTTP server for modern operating systems including UNIX and
   Windows. The goal of this project is to provide a secure, efficient and
   extensible server that provides HTTP services in sync with the current HTTP
   standards.

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 Contemplating a 2.4.30 release at the moment. A lot of technical discussions
 have taken place. We have invited two longstanding members of the httpd
 community to our PMC in recognition of their outstanding work done to help
 and further the httpd project.


## Community health:
 - Activity has gone up a bit, with 20 active developers contributing code and
   documentation to httpd this quarter. The number of commits done has been
   steady, but we've seen an uptick in the number of people contributing. On
   the issue tracker front, we've seen quite a lot of people stepping up to
   resolve issues (a 100% incline).

   We haven't seen any _new_ contributors, but rather a return of people who
   have been on a break from httpd for a while. There has been some discussion
   on whether to integrate tighter with services like GitHub to lower the bar
   to contributing.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 51 PMC members.
 - New PMC members:
    - Daniel Ferradal was added to the PMC on Thu Jan 25 2018
    - Frank Gingras was added to the PMC on Thu Feb 01 2018

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 119 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Daniel Ferradal at Wed Apr 26 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 2.4.29 on Mon Oct 23 2017

## Email/BugZilla stats:

 - Nothing to report here, same as usual.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Report from the Apache HttpComponents Project  [Asankha Chamath Perera]

## Description:

 - The Apache HttpComponents project is responsible for creating and
   maintaining a toolset of low-level Java components focused on HTTP and
   associated protocols

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
 - The board has asked about prospective PMCs or committers, but
   we do not have any at this moment.

## Activity:

 - The team has been considering moving the website to markdown.

## Health report:

 - Overall the project remains active. Although established in late 2007
   the project remains stable and active as seen by JIRA and Emails.
 - The number of emails could be seen as low, but it is stable like the state
   of the project, and we still have interested people contributing.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 9 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Michael Osipov on Mon Aug 24 2015

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 18 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Julian Sedding at Fri Sep 30 2016

## Releases:

 - HttpClient 4.5.4 GA was released on Mon Dec 04 2017 
 - HttpClient 4.5.5 GA was released on Mon Jan 22 2018 
 - HttpClient 5.0 Alpha3 was released on Mon Nov 27 2017 
 - HttpClient 5.0-beta1 was released on Thu Jan 18 2018 
 - HttpCore 4.4.9 was released on Mon Jan 15 2018 
 - HttpCore 5.0-beta2 was released on Mon Jan 15 2018 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Report from the Apache Ignite Project  [Denis A. Magda]

## Description:
 - memory-centric a distributed database, caching, and processing platform for
   transactional, analytical, and streaming workloads delivering in-memory
   speeds at petabyte scale

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
 - Apache Ignite 2.4 is being prepared for the release. The release brings in
   Spark Data Frames support, low-level binary client protocol, SQL DDL
   commands, and many performance optimizations.
 - Apache Ignite community is getting busier and busier presenting Ignite
   worldwide at conferences, meetups,and webinars. Users can come across
   Ignite experts in the U.S, Europe, Australia, Japan, Russia. February 2018
   beat the record with 14 captured Ignite talks:
   https://ignite.apache.org/events.html
 - Genetic Algorithms library was donated to Ignite code base. The community
   is in the process of accepting it in the main code base:
   https://goo.gl/RoinxY

## Health report:
 - The project keeps growing. Two new committers were welcomed since the last
   report. The user and contributors base is growing too.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 24 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Pavel Tupitsyn on Mon Aug 28 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 35 committers.
 - New commmitters:
    - Yury Babak was added as a committer on Tue Nov 28 2017
    - Nikolay Izhikov was added as a committer on Wed Jan 31 2018

## Releases:

 - Last release was 2.3.0 on Tue Oct 31 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 - The statistics confirm that the project keeps gaining the popularity.

 - dev@ignite.apache.org:
    - 337 subscribers (up 18 in the last 3 months):
    - 2808 emails sent to list (3383 in previous quarter)

 - ci@ignite.apache.org:
    - 5 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months)

 - issues@ignite.apache.org:
    - 32 subscribers (up 4 in the last 3 months):
    - 6439 emails sent to list (6971 in previous quarter)

 - services@ignite.apache.org:
    - 7 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months)

 - user@ignite.apache.org:
    - 632 subscribers (up 49 in the last 3 months):
    - 1932 emails sent to list (1922 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

 - 787 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 525 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Report from the Apache Impala Project  [Jim Apple]

## Description:

Impala is a high-performance distributed SQL engine.

## Issues:

There are no special issues the board should be aware of.

## Activity:

The most prominent activity in January was the branching to prepare for a 3.0
release. Version 2.11.0 was also released in January, and a 2.x branch is
maintained with the anticipated possible release of versions 2.12.0 and
beyond. This branching enabled a number of breaking changes to finally land.

Other notable efforts include:

  * Enhancements to sampled statistics collection
  * The continuation of long-term efforts around the buffer pool
  * The continuation of long-term efforts around Kudu's RPC
  * The enablement of different decimal semantics (for the 3.x branch only)
  * Improved usage of OpenSSL (both performance and correctness)
  * The exposure of more system information in the web UI
  * Multiple improvements to test parallelism performance and correctness

## Health report:

The project remains healthy. There were 124 dev@emails, 62 user@ emails, 106
tickets opened and 104 resolved, and three new patch authors. There were 98
commits, which is consistent with the average rate over 2017 of 92 commits per
month.

## PMC and committer changes:

Tianyi Wang was added as a committer on January 5. Philip Zeyliger was added
as a committer on January 9. The most recent new PMC member was added on
2017-09-27.

## Releases:

2.11.0 was released on January 18.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Report from the Apache Incubator Project  [John D. Ament]

Incubator PMC report for February 2018

The Apache Incubator is the entry path into the ASF for projects and
codebases wishing to become part of the Foundation's efforts.

There are presently 54 podlings incubating.  In the month of January, podlings executed five releases, we added four additional IPMC members; as well as one new podling and one retiring podling.

* Community

  New IPMC members:

  - David E. Jones
  - Kevin A. McGrail
  - Mark Thomas
  - Timothy Chen

  People who left the IPMC:

  - None

* New Podlings

  - ECharts

* Podlings that failed to report, expected next month

  - iota: no further reports expected, podling is retiring
  - Milagro: expecting podling to retire
  - Myriad: expecting podling to retire
  - Slider: A report was submitted, but missed mentor sign off.  The report indicates a move into Hadoop is going to happen soon.

* Graduations

  The board has motions for the following:

  - None

* Releases

  The following releases entered distribution during the month of
  January:

  - 2018-01-02 Apache Airflow 1.9.0
  - 2018-01-16 Apache Aria Tosca 0.2.0
  - 2018-01-17 Apache Taverna Server 3.1.0
  - 2018-01-22 Apache Traffic Control 2.1.0
  - 2018-01-27 Apache DataFu 1.3.3

* IP Clearance

  - Appreciations go out for ensuring that RocketMQ performs proper IP Clearance.  Similar reminders have gone out to DeltaSpike and TomEE.

* Legal / Trademarks

  - Multiple podlings have open tickets and emails in to legal to review open questions.  Assistance is requested to guide them, even if the answer is "work with your mentors to get an answer."

* Infrastructure

  - Work will need to begin to clean up remaining links into the retired Service Desk instance.

* Miscellaneous

  - Due to a typo by the VP Incubator, report reminders were sent out to podlings as of February 2017 instead of February 2018.  While most TLPs who incorrectly received the alerts questioned it via their dev lists, a couple of TLPs skipped on list communication and instead verified off list.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Table of Contents
Airflow
Crail
ECharts
Edgent
Heron
Joshua
Livy
PageSpeed
PLC4X
Ratis
S2Graph
SDAP
ServiceComb
SkyWalking
Spot
Tamaya
Toree
Unomi

----------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------
Airflow

Airflow is a workflow automation and scheduling system that can be used to
author and manage data pipelines.

Airflow has been incubating since 2016-03-31.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. We have had 4 releases and are working toward our 5th. We are getting better at releases.
  2.
  3.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?
None


How has the community developed since the last report?
1. We had our forth official release 1.9.0 on Jan 2, 2018.
2. Since our last podling report 4 months ago (i.e. between Sept 25 & Feb 8,
   inclusive), we grew our contributors from 315 to 385
3. Since our last podling report 4 months ago (i.e. between Sept 25 & Feb 8, 
   inclusive), we resolved 331 pull requests (currently at 2128 closed PRs)
4. Since being accepted into the incubator, the number of companies officially 
   using Apache Airflow has risen from 30 to 132, 18 new from the last podling
   report.


How has the project developed since the last report?
  See above : 331 PR resolved, 70 new contributors, & 18 new companies 
  officially using it.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [x] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2018-01-02

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  2017-11-30 joygao a.k.a Joy Gao (committer/PMC)

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](airflow) Chris Nauroth
     Comments:
  [x](airflow) Hitesh Shah
     Comments:
  [x](airflow) Jakob Homan
     Comments: Ready for graduation

--------------------
Crail

Crail is a storage platform for sharing performance critical data in
distributed data processing jobs at very high speed.

Crail has been incubating since 2017-11-01.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Community building
  2. Improve project visibility
  3. Create the first release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

* No issues require attention at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

* We are trying to advertise Crail to attract more people
  to contribute and/or use it. In that respect, we got a
  presentation at this years SF Spark Summit accepted, where
  we will talk about Crail deployment in the Spark context.

How has the project developed since the last report?

 * Code transfer to apache.org complete
 * Project website up, working on improvements and compliance
 * Working on adapting Crail build process to new (Apache)
   environment.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [x] Initial setup
  [x] Working towards first release
  [x] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

 * N/A

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

 * 2017-11-01 (entering incubation)

Signed-off-by:

  [x](crail) Julian Hyde
     Comments:
       Well done getting the web site up and the source code into
       ASF git. It feels like the project is really up and running.
       Next steps are a release and podling name search.
  [x](crail) Luciano Resende
     Comments:
  [ ](crail) Raphael Bircher
     Comments:


--------------------
ECharts

ECharts is a charting and data visualization library written in JavaScript.

ECharts has been incubating since 2018-01-18.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Get all ICLA signed of initial committers.
  2. Move GitHub repository to apache/incubator-echarts, update license to apache v2.
  3. Working towards first ASF release.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  None.

How has the community developed since the last report?

  N/A(This is the first report); most developers have signed ICLAs, SGA is in
  flight.

How has the project developed since the last report?

  N/A(This is the first report)

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  N/A(This is the first report)

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  2018-01-18(entering incubation)

Signed-off-by:

  [X](echarts) John D. Ament
     Comments:
  [ ](echarts) Daniel Gruno
     Comments:
  [ ](echarts) Kevin A. McGrail
     Comments:
  [X](echarts) Dave Fisher
     Comments:

--------------------
Edgent

Apache Edgent is a programming SDK and micro-kernel style runtime
that can be embedded in gateways and small footprint edge devices enabling
local, real-time, analytics on the continuous streams of data coming
from equipment, vehicles, systems, appliances, devices and sensors of
all kinds (for example, Raspberry Pis or smart phones). Working in
conjunction with centralized analytic systems, Apache Edgent provides
efficient and timely analytics across the whole IoT ecosystem: from the
center to the edge.

Edgent has been incubating since 2016-02-29.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Create and expand a diverse community of contributors and committers
     around the Edgent project.
  2. Attracting at least another independent committer/ppmc member.
  3. Finding further real world users of Edgent

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  Community growth and participation continues to be an issue. One of the 
  two active committer/PPMC members is retiring at the end of February
  and the level of their continuing participation is unclear.
  But synergy with Apache PLC4X is encouraging.

How has the community developed since the last report?

  * Apache PLC4X is very interested in and promoting Apache Edgent as
    part of their overall story.  An initial Edgent connector was created
    and contributed to PLC4X.  Christofer Dutz demonstrated Edgent
    working together with PLC4X at the IoT Hessen Meetup at end of
    December and at Nortec Hamburg (Industrial fair).
  * subscribers to our mailing list are steady

How has the project developed since the last report?

  * Apache Edgent 1.2.0 was released.  The release is the culmination
    of the conversion to Maven and includes a number of enhancements and
    bug fixes. Binaries are now available from Nexus and Maven Central
    to make it easier to use Edgent.
  * Edgent Samples are now available via the new GitHub repository
    apache/incubator-edgent-samples.
  * JIRA and commits show continued activity on the project.
  
How would you assess the podling's maturity?

  Edgent is making slow but consistent progress towards graduation. While we
  don't yet meet the diversity requirements, we put emphasis on community
  growth through outreach which will ultimately pave the way for additional
  committers and contributors.

  Additionally, before we graduate it is important that we find users
  outside of IBM. As most Edgent committers are employed by IBM, external
  stakeholders help ensure long term contribution to the project.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2017-12-14  Apache Edgent 1.2.0

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  In August 2017, we added Christofer Dutz as a new committer
  and PPMC member.


Signed-off-by:

  [ ](edgent) Daniel Debrunner
     Comments:
  [ ](edgent) Luciano Resende
     Comments:
  [X](edgent) Justin Mclean
     Comments:
  [X](edgent) John D. Ament
     Comments:

--------------------
Heron

A real-time, distributed, fault-tolerant stream processing engine.

Heron has been incubating since 2017-06-23.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Finish bootstrapping project, IP clearance, initial website
  2. Expanding the community and adding new committers
  3. 1st ASF release

Migrating the code to Apache is still stalled, pending the SGA from Twitter. We've recently received word that there is progress on this front and that the SGA should be forthcoming.

The Heron team has a migration plan[1] forward into Apache. This plan is mostly on hold as Twitter is not moving forward with the code migration until after the SGA has been submitted.

1 - https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/a83095cd44e09fa179c4b5034e04acdb055a671406f1501a796700e0@%3Cdev.heron.apache.org%3E 

How has the community developed since the last report?

  * The number of contributors to the project has increased from 71 to 82 since the last report.


How has the project developed since the last report?


How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [x] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  No Apache releases as of yet, but 6 non-Apache releases have been made in this reporting period. The first Apache release will happen after the code import.

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  N/A, still bootstrapping the project.

Signed-off-by:

  [X](heron) Jake Farrell
     Comments:  Code import to ASF currently waiting on SGA from Twitter, despite this the community is continuing positive growth around the project and lists 
  [ ](heron) Jacques Nadeau
     Comments:
  [ ](heron) Julien Le Dem
     Comments:
  [ ](heron) P. Taylor Goetz
     Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:
  Dave Fisher: For the IPMC - how long do we wait for Twitter to execute the SGA? The committers from Twitter aren't or can't say what the status is.


--------------------

Joshua

Joshua is a statistical machine translation toolkit

Joshua has been incubating since 2016-02-13.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Draft Graduation Resolution
  2. Identifying specific use cases that Joshua might excel at.
  3. Attracting active developers and users.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

Joshua PPMC are in the process of moving towards an initial 
graduation resolution draft.

How has the community developed since the last report?

The PPMC has decided not to use the 7.X branch as new master.
Current master branch has more features and we have decided to
use it as the basis for moving forward.

How has the project developed since the last report?

New work is going in to updating the Homebrew Formula. This
will make Joshua available with some 50 or so language packs.
Essentially, this will make Joshua the most comprehensively
packaged open source machine translation library available.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [X] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2017-06-22

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  - 2016-11-16 Michael A. Hedderich (mhedderich) joins the Joshua PPMC +
    Committership.
  - 2016-11-16 Tobias Domhan (tdomhan) joins the Joshua PPMC + Committership.
  - 2016-11-02 Max Thomas (mthomas) joins the Joshua PPMC + Committership.

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](joshua) Paul Ramirez
     Comments:
  [X](joshua) Lewis John McGibbney
     Comments:
  [ ](joshua) Chris Mattmann
     Comments:
  [ ](joshua) Tom Barber
     Comments:

--------------------
Livy

Livy is web service that exposes a REST interface for managing long running
Apache Spark contexts in your cluster. With Livy, new applications can be
built on top of Apache Spark that require fine grained interaction with many
Spark contexts.

Livy has been incubating since 2017-06-05.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Grow the community and continue to involve more users and contributors
  2. Grow more committers to maintain the project
  3. Solidify our release cadence

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

N/A

How has the community developed since the last report?

Activity on the dev mailing list increased.

How has the project developed since the last report?

We released Livy 0.5.0-incubating with features including:
  - Code autocompletion
  - Spark SQL support
  - Sharing variables across jobs
  - Multi-line output for statements
  - Using multiple languages in a single session
  - Building with Scala 2.11

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2018-02-05

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  2017-09-18

Signed-off-by:

  [X](livy) Bikas Saha
     Comments:
  [ ](livy) Brock Noland
     Comments:
  [X](livy) Luciano Resende
     Comments:
  [X](livy) Jean-Baptiste Onofre
     Comments:

--------------------
PageSpeed

PageSpeed represents a series of open source technologies to help make the web
faster by rewriting web pages to reduce latency and bandwidth.

PageSpeed has been incubating since 2017-09-30.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Community building 
  2. Wrap up ASF license policy compliance
  3. Create a first release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

None.


How has the community developed since the last report?

The dev list is showing much more activity since the last board report:
- Gitbox notifications are now reflected to dev@
- Most discussions by devs have had dev@ looped in

One of the original team members from Google has been invited to join
as a PMC member/committer.

Limited contributions from outside of the initial committer group:
Documentation fixes, cpanel support.

How has the project developed since the last report?

- The initial code drop has been performed
- The project was voted to switch to Commit-to-Review while we work
  on license compliance and lots of small changes are anticipated.
- It looks like RAT compliance is close to being done.
- A first pass for assembling NOTICE and LICENSE for mod_pagespeed
  is under review.
- Dependencies have been updated, a reliability fix was merged
- There have been discussions on designs for new features

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  N/A

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  2017-09-30 (entering incubation, one new member is pending acceptation)

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](pagespeed) Jukka Zitting
     Comments:
  [X](pagespeed) Leif Hedstrom
     Comments:
  [x](pagespeed) Nick Kew
     Comments:
  [ ](pagespeed) Phil Sorber
     Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:
  Dave Fisher: LGTM


--------------------
PLC4X

PLC4X is a set of libraries for communicating with industrial programmable
logic controllers (PLCs) using a variety of protocols but with a shared API.

PLC4X has been incubating since 2017-12-18.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Building the community: The PPMC and committer group has a large percentage of 
codecentric employees, we have been recruiting people from other companies, but 
will have to continue these efforts for establishing a healthy Apache community.
Onboarding of new committers: With PLC4X several people on the team are not 
very familiar with the Apache Way. We have started and will continue our 
efforts on this onboarding.
  2. Making our first release.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

In order to get access to some of the specifications the ASF will eventually 
have to become Members of some external foundations: OPC, EtherCat, Modbus … 
these memberships usually have a free level, that allows us to use the 
specifications but doesn’t result in any regular costs. We will have to discuss 
these details with the ASF and the other foundations.

One of the external foundations (Profinet) doesn’t have a free membership. In 
general, the CEO of the European branch of the Profinet Foundation has signaled 
that it should be possible for the ASF to become a member and have an outside 
company pay the membership fees, but we have to discuss the details (With them 
as well as the ASF).


How has the community developed since the last report?

We have finished the process of getting setup at Apache.

The Podling Name Search has been resolved successfully 
(https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/PODLINGNAMESEARCH-136)

In of January a list of about 40 different companies, which have indicated 
interest in PLC4X in personal discussions have been directly contacted 
regarding our project, some have subscribed to our mailing lists.
A small number of new people have been popping up on our mailing lists.

On 23rd of January Christofer Dutz had a talk PLC4X at the Nortec 2018 
conference in Hamburg (Production industry conference) 
(https://www.nortec-hamburg.de/).

We have continuing our onboarding of new Apache committers (extended emails 
with a lot of explanations on why we are doing things the way we are)
Testing coverage has been improved over the initial code base.

With Beckhoff, we managed to get a first major PLC vendor to support us with 
software as well as technical support. We hope on this having a signal-effect 
on other vendors.

How has the project developed since the last report?

Test coverage and SonarQube reported issues have been addressed hereby greatly 
increasing the quality of the initial POC code.

A lot of code and architecture reviews have been done which lead to great 
improvements in the API itself.

We have started work on a RawSocket Netty transport which is a requirement to 
implement protocols that are IP based, but are not TCP or UDP.

We have started work on implementing a driver for the Beckhoff ADS protocol.
(Beckhoff has been very helpful with providing Specs and Support for setting
up a test environment.)

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  None yet

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  None elected beyond initial committers.

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](plc4x) Greg Trasuk
     Comments:
  [X](plc4x) Justin Mclean
     Comments:
  [X](plc4x) Luciano Resende
     Comments:
  [ ](plc4x) Stefan Bodewig
     Comments:

--------------------
Ratis

Ratis is a java implementation for RAFT consensus protocol

Ratis has been incubating since 2017-01-03.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Work towards a beta release.
  2. Stabilize nightly build process.
  3. More committers.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

None

How has the community developed since the last report?
    5 new contributors have been added. Total 41 contributors currently.
    2 new committers have been elected.


How has the project developed since the last report?
    Jenkins setup is completed. 
    Project website is available at http://ratis.apache.org/
    62 new commits to the project. Multiple snapshot releases.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup - Jenkins setup completed. Website available http://ratis.apache.org/
  [ ] Work towards 0.2-alpha has started. Plans for a beta release shaping up. Need to establish a release cadence.
  [ ] Community building - 5 new contributors. 2 new committers.
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2017-05-17: 0.1-alpha release
  2018-01-23: Last snapshot release
  

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?
  2018-01-10


Signed-off-by:

  [ ](ratis) Chris Nauroth
     Comments:
  [x](ratis) Jakob Homan
     Comments:
  [x](ratis) Uma Maheswara Rao G
     Comments:
  [x](ratis) Devaraj Das
     Comments:

--------------------
S2Graph

S2Graph is a distributed and scalable OLTP graph database built on Apache
HBase to support fast traversal of extremely large graphs.

S2Graph has been incubating since 2015-11-29.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Make a third release.
  2. Attract more users and contributors.
  3. Build the developer community in both size and diversity.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  None

How has the community developed since the last report?

  * Suggestion from community on interactive graph visualization feature is under development(S2GRAPH-174)
  * Initial committer who has been dormant for a while become active on(S2GRAPH-172)
                                
How has the project developed since the last report?

  * Support GraphQL as standard web interface. (S2GRAPH-172)
  * Support Elastic Search as global index provider. (S2GRAPH-175)
  * Add Embedded RocksDB as storage backend. (S2GRAPH-166)
  * Provide java client.
    - Define public interface and change code base to only use interface. (S2GRAPH-170)
    - Implementing java client is not yet started.
          
How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [x] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2017-08-26

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  None

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](s2graph) Andrew Purtell
     Comments: 
  [ ](s2graph) Seetharam Venkatesh
     Comments:
  [X](s2graph) Sergio Fernández
     Comments: To me remains a concern if the community is able to grow outside of Kakao.

--------------------
SDAP

SDAP is an integrated data analytic center for Big Science problems.

SDAP has been incubating since 2017-10-22.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Grow community
  2. Make formal SDAP (Incubating) releases
  3. Evangelize SDAP as an integrated data analytic center for Big Science problems

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  No

How has the community developed since the last report?

The community is demonstrating the ability to VOTE decisively. 
We acquired quorum to move canonical source code development
to Gitbox.

How has the project developed since the last report?

All infrastructure and codebase(s) have successfully been
transitioned over to the ASF. Three new repositories have been 
created and initial source code imports have taken place.
Development is working through JIRA nicely.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  XXXX-XX-XX

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

No new committers or PPMC have been added other than the
original SDAP committers.

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](sdap) Jörn Rottmann
     Comments:
  [ ](sdap) Raphael Bircher
     Comments:
  [ ](sdap) Suneel Marthi
     Comments:
  [X](sdap) Lewis John McGibbney
     Comments: SDAP is doing very well. Branding,
     trademarks, source code compliance are the
     primary issues blocking a release right now.

--------------------
ServiceComb

ServiceComb is a microservice framework that provides a set of tools and
components to make development and deployment of cloud applications easier.

ServiceComb has been incubating since 2017-11-22.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. IP clearance and License clean up
  2. Community building
  3. Create a first release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

   None. 

How has the community developed since the last report (December 2017)?
   * Git repositories and mailing lists were set
   * The community has been working hard to get the first release out, which will be service-center 1.0.0-m1, java-chassis 1.0.0-m1 and saga 0.1.0

How has the project developed since the last report(December 2017)?

   * Java Chassis resolved 73 issues with 430 commits by 38 contributors.
   * Service Center resolved 34 issues with 124 commits by 13 contributors.
   * Saga resolved resolved 44 issues with 183 commits by 10 contributors.
   * 70 mails sent by 14 people on the dev@ list

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [*] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  XXXX-XX-XX

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?
   
  None.


Signed-off-by:

  [X](servicecomb) Roman Shaposhnik
     Comments:
  [X](servicecomb) Jean-Baptiste Onofre
     Comments:
  [X](servicecomb) Timothy Chen
     Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:

  Drew Farris (shepherd): At least one mentor post on the mailing lists, may have missed other (GitBox makes this hard). A great deal of activity for a young project.

--------------------
SkyWalking

Skywalking is an APM (application performance monitor), especially for
microservice, Cloud Native and container-based architecture systems. Also
known as a distributed tracing system. It provides an automatic way to
instrument applications: no need to change any of the source code of the
target application; and an collector with an very high efficiency streaming
module.

SkyWalking has been incubating since 2017-12-08.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. IP clearance.
  3. First ASF release. (SkyWalking 5.0)
  3. Further ASF culture and processes.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

 Some GPL compile-time library dependencies were removed from the default
maven reactor. Related plugin components to the project can still be built
if the GPL dependencies are manually downloaded.


How has the community developed since the last report?

 Added a number of established committers to the PPMC, 
as it the norm in the Incubator.

 Improved understanding of usage of the Apache trademark, it use with
the project, and avoiding ASF explicit announcements during incubation.

 Community reaches out to press@apache.org whenever uncertain.


How has the project developed since the last report?

The project website has been uploaded to its new location at
 http://skywalking.incubator.apache.org/

Code wise the project has good momentum.
There has been ~40 pull requests opened and accepted, and 191 commits, 
in the last month.


How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:
 n/a

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

 Hongtao Gao (PPMC)
 Shinn Zhang (PPMC)
 Yongsheng Peng (PPMC)


Signed-off-by:

  [x](skywalking) Luke Han
     Comments:
  [x](skywalking) Willem Ning Jiang
     Comments:
  [x](skywalking) Mick Semb Wever
     Comments:

--------------------
Spot

Apache Spot is a platform for network telemetry built on an open data model
and Apache Hadoop.

Spot has been incubating since 2016-09-23.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

 1. Develop a better release process

 2. Handle additional data types for ingestion and enrichment into ODM shema

 3. Fostering more activity in the user, dev and private mail lists

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

a. Issues providing podling reports during December, January.
This is being addressed moving forward.

How has the community developed since the last report?

a. Seeing more pull requests from new contributors

How has the project developed since the last report?

a. Development on the ODM branch has been moving forward and will continue to push towards adoption into the master branch.
b. Ingest redesign underway

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [x] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

2017-09-08

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

2018-01-18

Signed-off-by:

  [ ](spot) Jarek Jarcec Cecho
     Comments:
  [X](spot) Brock Noland
     Comments:
  [ ](spot) Andrei Savu
     Comments:
  [ ](spot) Uma Maheswara Rao G
     Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:
  Dave Fisher: It's not clear to me where this podling has development discussions. 
  It would be good for the mentors to guide Spot to at least reflect discussions 
  on the dev@ list from Slack, Github or wherever these are happening.


--------------------
Tamaya

Tamaya is a highly flexible configuration solution based on an modular,
extensible and injectable key/value based design, which should provide a
minimal but extendible modern and functional API leveraging SE, ME and EE
environments.

Tamaya has been incubating since 2014-11-14.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1.release new versions compliant with configJSR/enhanced OSGi support
  2.grow the community, get more active participants
  3.graduate as the project is functionally very mature

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

We'd like to graduate after 0.4 is out, maybe Q1-2018.

How has the community developed since the last report?

New external contributor William Lieurance

How has the project developed since the last report?

Continued development of v0.4, struggled with build problems after JDK
updates, introduced rewritten Tamaya-API compliant with
Eclipse-ConfigJSR proposal (on a separate branch yet).
Integrated with Travis to get rid of build failures, updated
documentation of project, blog articles

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [X] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2018-05-27 v0.3-incubating

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

P. Ottlinger at 2016-04-24.

Signed-off-by:

  [X](tamaya) John D. Ament
     Comments:
  [ ](tamaya) David Blevins
     Comments:

--------------------
Toree

Toree provides applications with a mechanism to interactively and remotely
access Apache Spark.

Toree has been incubating since 2015-12-02.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1.More discussion and engagement on the mailing list as opposed to "gitter"
  2.Community growth
  3.Continue to make releases

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

* No issues require attention at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

* The community has been working on the 0.2.0 release,
and a new RC3 should be available soon.

How has the project developed since the last report?

* Other then the work on the 0.2.0 release we have
seen some active discussions around performance, particularly
around Toree startup and an enhancement PR has been just
submitted and needs to be evaluated/reviewed by the community


How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [x] Community building
  [x] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

* 2017-02-21

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

* Ryan Blue was added to the PMC on 2017-04-03


Signed-off-by:

  [x](toree) Luciano Resende
     Comments:
  [ ](toree) Reynold Xin
     Comments:
  [x](toree) Hitesh Shah
     Comments:
  [ ](toree) Julien Le Dem
     Comments:
  [x](toree) Ryan Blue
     Comments:

--------------------
Unomi

Unomi is a reference implementation of the OASIS Context Server
specification

currently being worked on by the OASIS Context Server Technical Committee.
It provides a high-performance user profile and event tracking server.

Unomi has been incubating since 2015-10-05.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:

  1. Keep a good pace of releases
  2. Improve communication around the project and improve project web site
  3. Expand the communities (both developers and end-users)

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware of?

None

How has the community developed since the last report?

We are seing more new faces in the mailing list, and activity in commit is
steady. We plan to encourage more and more people to communicate through
the mailing list as well as become committers.

How has the project developed since the last report?

We are working on the 1.3.0 features as well as getting ready for version
2.0 that will integrate the new CXS GraphQL API.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?

Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [X] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2017-09-20

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

2017-01-23


Signed-off-by:

  [ ](unomi) Bertrand Delacretaz
     Comments:
  [X](unomi) Jean-Baptiste Onofré
     Comments:


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Report from the Apache James Project  [Eric Charles]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Report from the Apache jUDDI Project  [Alex O'Ree]

## Description:
 - jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the
   Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI v3) specification
   for (Web) Services. The jUDDI project includes Scout. Scout is an
   implementation of the JSR 93 - Java API for XML Registries 1.0 (JAXR).

## Issues:
 - There are no issues that require the board's attention at this time.

## Activity:
 jUDDI - last release was 22 NOV 2017. Little development has taken place
 since then.

Scout
- No release this period, no development took place.
- No JAXR related questions on the mailing list.

## Health report:
 - Low development activity is a factor for low mailing list volume, but in
   all likelihood, it's from a general lack of interest in the protocol.
 - There are enough active PMC members to approve releases and respond to
   potential security issues. There were no issue raised since the last
   report.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 7 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Alex O'Ree on Sun Mar 17 2013

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 7 committers.
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report.

## Releases:

 - 3.3.5 was released on Wed Nov 22 2017

## /dist/ errors: 28
 - Committer and former PMC signing key is expired

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@juddi.apache.org:
    - 71 subscribers (down -3 in the last 3 months):
    - 57 emails sent to list (178 in previous quarter)

 - user@juddi.apache.org:
    - 116 subscribers (down -4 in the last 3 months):
    - 7 emails sent to list (5 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 4 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 6 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Report from the Apache Juneau Project  [James Bognar]

## Description:
 - Juneau is a Java library used for constructing REST microservices using
   marshalled POJOs.

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
 - Release v7.0.1 was created on Dec 24, 2017
 - Currently working on release v7.1.0.  Plan to release in the next few
   weeks.
 - Switched to using gitbox.

## Health report:
 - Last release:  Release v7.0.1 was created on Dec 24, 2017
 - Last committer addition: Oct 17, 2017
 - 61 commits in the past 30 days.

## PMC changes:
 - Currently 9 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Craig L Russell on Tue Oct 17 2017

## Committer base changes:
 - Currently 9 committers.
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report.

## Releases:
 - Last release was 7.0.1 on Dec 24, 2017


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Report from the Apache Kafka Project  [Jun Rao]

Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming platform for efficiently storing and
processing a large number of records in real time.

Development
===========
We are voting the second RC of release 1.0.1, which fixes 49 critical issues.
We will also be releasing 1.1.0 in Feb, which includes major features such as
JBOD, delegation tokens, controller improvements, dynamic broker configs,
improved consumption performance with a large number of partitions, and Kafka
Streams API improvements.

Community
===========
Lots of activities in the mailing list. We have 2625 subscribers in the user
mailing list, up 64 in the last 3 months. We have 1180 emails in the user
mailing list in the last 3 months, a bit less than the 1185 in the previous
cycle. We have 1100 subscribers in the dev mailing list, up 43 in the last 3
months. We have 2819 emails in the dev mailing list in the last 3 months, down
from the 4172 in the previous cycle, likely due to holidays.

We elected one new committer, Matthias Sax on Jan. 12, 2018. We elected one
new PMC member, Rajini Sivaramon on Jan. 17, 2018.

The agenda for the next Kafka Summit in London in Apr. 2018 has been
published.

Releases
===========
0.11.0.1 was released on Sep. 13, 2017.
1.0.0 was released on Nov. 1, 2017.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Report from the Apache Kibble Project  [Rich Bowen]

###########################
## Description:

Apache Kibble is a suite of tools for collecting, aggregating and
visualizing activity in software projects. http://kibble.apache.org/

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Health and Activity:

The last month has been very slow on the project development side.

Kibble participated in the Apache presence at FOSDEM, giving demos of
the project. This was extremely popular, with people standing 3-deep
to watch the demo and ask questions. This included several
organizations who indicated interest not only in using the project,
but contributing to it.

In the coming month, there's a focus on improving the documentation
to ease the user onboarding.

The ASF issued a press release about the establishment of Kibble -
https://s.apache.org/wMMa - which we hope will bring us some
additional attention.


## PMC changes:

 - Currently 12 PMC members.
 - We voted Rafael Weingärtner in to our PMC on December 6th, 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 11 committers.
 - No new committers since project establishment (October, 2017)

## Releases:

 - No releases yet. We tentatively plan to have our first release within
   the next six months.

## Mailing list and bug tracker activity:

The mailing lists have been very quiet for the last few weeks, as we
all were focused on FOSDEM. We anticipate renewed activity in the
coming month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Report from the Apache Knox Project  [Larry McCay]

## Description:
 - The Apache Knox Gateway is an Application Gateway for interacting with the
   REST APIs and UIs of Apache Hadoop deployments. The Knox Gateway provides a
   single access point for all REST and HTTP interactions with Apache Hadoop
   clusters. Knox delivers three groups of user facing services: Proxying,
   Authentication and Client Services

## Issues:
 - there are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 - The Apache Knox team completed the release of Apache Knox 0.14.0 and
   followed up with our 1.0.0 release which was largely the same as 0.14.0 but
   it included a repackaging of all of our class package names to remove
"hadoop" from the name. This allows downstream consumers to take on new
 features in 0.14.0 without being forced to move to new package names in case
 of incompatibilities. We have a backlog of JIRAs for 1.1.0 but will also
 begin our feature planning through the use of KIP-# wiki pages to identify
 larger features and themes for the release.

## Health report:
 - We have continued to use the KIP-# pages to drive the primary focus of each
   release and feel it is working well. The 0.14.0 release was primarily
   focused on the addition of the service discovery and simplified descriptors
(KIP-8) to improve and simplify management of topologies. It also includes
 many improvements and bug fixes. It took a bit longer than anticipated due to
 issues found during the VOTE with community testing. The Dec 14 2017 release
 date allowed for the primary focus for 0.14.0 to be more rounded out and a
 better quality release to roll into our 1.0.0 milestone in early Feb 2018.
 - Community contributions continue to show growth and growing interest and is
   encouraging.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 16 PMC members.
 - Philip Zampino was added to the PMC on Mon Jan 01 2018

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 20 committers.
 - Philip Zampino was added as a committer on Fri Dec 29 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 1.0.0 on Wed Feb 07 2018

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@knox.apache.org:
    - 86 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months):
    - 923 emails sent to list (1492 in previous quarter)

 - user@knox.apache.org:
    - 114 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months):
    - 62 emails sent to list (119 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 69 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 50 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Report from the Apache Kylin Project  [Luke Han]

## Description:
Apache Kylin is an open source Distributed Analytics Engine designed
to provide SQL interface and multi-dimensional analysis (OLAP) on 
Hadoop supporting extremely large datasets.

## Issues: 
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time   
## Activity: 
 - Second free book published by InfoQ about Apache Kylin Use
Cases in Dec, 2017.
 - Shaofeng Shi presented Apache Kylin at Alluxio Meetup @Beijing
in Jan 2018.
 - Apache Kylin & Alluxio Meetup hosted in Shanghai on Feb 21, 2018
 - Dong Li present Apache Kylin at OSC on 2017-11-10 in Xi'an
 - Dong Li present Apache Kylin Diangosis Service at Strata Singapore
 - Billy Liu present Apache Kylin 2.X new features at GITC(Global Internet 
   Technology Conference) 2017 Beijing

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 19 PMC members. 
 - Billy Liu was added to the PMC on Mon Nov 27 2017
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 31 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Jianhua Peng was added as a committer on Wed Jan 24 2018 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - Last release was 2.2.0 on Fri Nov 03 2017 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - dev@kylin.apache.org:  
    - 405 subscribers (up 26 in the last 3 months): 
    - 582 emails sent to list (770 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@kylin.apache.org:  
    - 80 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months): 
    - 2961 emails sent to list (1920 in previous quarter) 
   
 - user@kylin.apache.org:  
    - 325 subscribers (up 18 in the last 3 months): 
    - 461 emails sent to list (343 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 219 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 343 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AK: Report from the Apache Lens Project  [Amareshwari Sriramadasu]

## Description: 
Lens provides an Unified Analytics interface. Lens aims to cut the Data
Analytics silos by providing a single view of data across multiple tiered
data stores and optimal execution environment for the analytical query. It
seamlessly integrates Hadoop with traditional data warehouses to appear like
one.

## Issues: 
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Activity: 
 - 2.7.1 Release completed
 - Fixed Server side stabilization issues: State persistence issues, 
   Closing idle connections.
 - Improvements added for determining jdbc query cost, configuring lookahead
   time partitions.
    
## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 18 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Puneet Gupta on Tue Sep 20 2016 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 23 committers. 
 - Rajitha R was added as a committer on Fri Feb 09 2018 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - Last release was 2.7.1 on Tue Feb 06 2018  

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AL: Report from the Apache Libcloud Project  [Tomaž Muraus]

## Description:

Libcloud is a Python library that abstracts away the differences among
multiple cloud provider APIs.

## Issues:

There are no issues which require board attention at this time.

## Activity:

We received a good amount of community contributions and we are just
working on rolling out v2.3.0 release with many changes and
improvements.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 13 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Jeff Dunham on Sat May 21 2016

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 20 committers.
 - Quentin Pradet was added as a committer on Thu Sep 21 2017

## Releases:

 - 2.2.1 was released on September 21, 2017
 - 2.2.0 was released on September 04, 2017

A voting thread for 2.3.0 with many new features has been started so
a new release can be expected soon.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AM: Report from the Apache Logging Services Project  [Matt Sicker]

## Description:

Apache Logging Services creates and maintains open source software related to
application logging.

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - Log4j: we completed our 2.10.0 release and have started work toward
   modularizing Log4j Core (and other plugins) along with an updated
   3.0 API to better support Java 9 modules and a stable plugin API. This has
   also been inspired by a strong desire to improve our release process as we
   accumulate several strongly orthogonal components which in our experience
   has made release management more and more tedious.
 - Chainsaw: we released version 2.0.
 - Log4j Audit: we are preparing for a preview release of this new component
   for audit logging in JVM applications.

## Health report:

Logging Services remains an active project. The community is healthy,
friendly, and helpful.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 13 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Mikael Ståldal on Mon Jun 20 2016

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 32 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Thorsten Schöning at Mon Mar 06 2017

## Releases:

 - LOG4J-2.10.0 was released on Wed Nov 22 2017
 - CHAINSAW-2.0 was released on Thu Jan 25 2018

## /dist/ errors: 6

Four of these errors are related to Log4j Extras 1.2.17 which is no longer
maintained (same as Log4j 1.2.x in general). The other two errors are from an
old Log4cxx 0.10.0 release whose key has expired.

## Mailing list activity:

Mailing list activity has not changed all that much, though the activity on
dev@ has decreased now that notifications@ has been set up for the past
quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AN: Report from the Apache ManifoldCF Project  [Karl Wright]

Project description
==============

ManifoldCF is an effort to provide an open source framework for connecting
source content repositories like Microsoft Sharepoint and EMC Documentum, to
target repositories or indexes, such as Apache Solr, OpenSearchServer or
ElasticSearch. ManifoldCF also defines a security model for target
repositories that permits them to enforce source repository security policies.

Releases
========

ManifoldCF graduated from the Apache Incubator on May 16, 2012.  Since then,
there have been numerous major releases, including a 2.9.1 release on
January 15, 2018.  The next major release is scheduled for April 30, 2018.

Committers and PMC membership
=============================

We nominated and approved Markus Schuch as a PMC member on 12/29/2017.
We did not sign up any new committers this quarter.  We continue to be on the
lookout for new PMC members and committers.

Mailing list activity
=====================

Mailing list activity has been moderate this quarter.  Development has been
taking place due to many downstream critical release updates.  Issues reported
have been largely about refinements to some of our connectors that have less
robust user communities and constituencies.  I am unaware of any mailing list
question that has gone unanswered.  We do have a number of cases where
people who should be posting to our lists instead contact individual committers
directly, or open tickets simply to ask questions.  I think this may be due to a
general community dislike in signing up for mailing lists.

Outstanding issues
==================

No outstanding infrastructure issues are known at this time.

Branding
========

We continue to believe we are now compliant with Apache branding guidelines,
with the possible exception of (TM) signs in logos from other Apache products
that don't have any such marks.  We received word that the ManifoldCF
trademark application (US TM App No. 86583085 for "MANIFOLDCF" in Cl. 9 | DLA
Ref: 393457-900118) has been accepted.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AO: Report from the Apache Marmotta Project  [Jakob Frank]

## Description:
Apache Marmotta, an Open Platform for Linked Data. Apache Marmotta was founded
in December 2012, and has graduated from the Incubator in November 2013.

## Issues:
There are no major issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
We had a bit more traffic on the mailing lists in the last three months. Some
user questions asked on users@ and dev@ have been asked and answered, also
some minimal development progress and small bugfixes happend in the codebase.
However, the release of 3.4.0 is still blocked by a broken plugin in the build
process.

## Health report:
The project was considered feature-complete in 3.3.0. The current release
cycle (3.4.0) focuses on refining and fixing bug, plus incorporation some
non-core new features. The development activities (issues, commits, emails)
continue to be on a very low level.

There are at least 3 active PMC members following the mailing lists.

## PMC changes:
- Currently 11 PMC members.
- Last PMC addition was Mark A. Matienzo on Thu Aug 18 2016

## Committer base changes:
- Currently 13 committers.
- Xavier Sumba was added as a committer on Mon Mar 27 2017

## Releases:
- Last release was 3.3.0 on Fri Dec 05 2014

## Mailing list activity:
- users@marmotta.apache.org:
   - 116 subscribers (up 1 since last report):
   - 10 emails sent to list (0 in previous report)
- dev@marmotta.apache.org:
   - 102 subscribers (up 0 since last report):
   - 15 emails sent to list (33 in previous report)

## JIRA activity:
- 2 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
- 2 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AP: Report from the Apache Mesos Project  [Benjamin Hindman]

Description:

Apache Mesos abstracts CPU, memory, storage, and other compute
resources away from machines (physical or virtual), enabling
fault-tolerant and elastic distributed systems to easily be built and
run effectively.

Issues:

There are no Board-level issues at this time.

Activity:

* A new API working group has been proposed to help ensure a
 consistent API and avoid API mistakes (which are hard to reverse).

* Docathon held in January to help improve documentation.

* Started cross-posting on a Medium blog to improve visibility of the
 Mesos blog. Blog posts for master failover performance
 improvements and CSI were posted.

* 'This Month in Mesos' reports were posted to the mailing list for
 December and January. These were started to help users follow
 along with developments in the project, given there's a lot going on.

* Meetup in Palo Alto brought together users from Twitter, Uber,
 Netflix, Apple, and more. Lots of great feedback for improvement
 along common themes: Want to run daemon services with Mesos,
 UI doesn't scale, strong desire for a CLI (currently undergoing a
 re-architecture), state querying affects master availability, lots
 of interest in containerization improvements.

* The project continues to see new bug reports, bug fixes, features,
 reviews and releases. The mailing lists, slack and IRC channels are
 also very much active with healthy discussions. Multiple active
 working groups (containerization, performance, community).

New committers:

Andrew Schwartzmeyer was voted in as a committer and PMC member on 2017-11-10.
Zhitao Li was voted in as a committer and PMC member on 2018-02-12.

Releases (since last board report):

1.5.0 (vote in progress)
1.4.1 Nov 15 2017
1.3.2 Jan 25 2017
1.2.3 Dec 1 2017

JIRA Activity (last 3 months):

310 Issues - Created
254 Issues - Resolved

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AQ: Report from the Apache MetaModel Project  [Kasper Sørensen]

Report from the Apache MetaModel project [Kasper Sørensen]

## Description:
   Providing a common interface for discovery, exploration of metadata and
   querying of different types of data sources.

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 - MetaModel 5.0.1 was released and has proven to be a stable library for the
   community.
 - The "Membrane" subproject was also released as version 1.0.0. But we
   haven't heard much from people using it.

## Health report:
 - We're in a period of rather low activity wrt. MetaModel development. There
   aren't any specific reasons for this that comes to mind. At this point it's
   not a big concern for the PMC, but we'll keep monitoring it.
 - We should consider inviting other individuals since there are some that
   have made good contributions to the code in recent months.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 11 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Dennis Du Krøger on Mon Sep 05 2016

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 11 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Dennis Du Krøger at Thu Oct 15 2015

## Releases:

 - 4.6.1 was released on Sun Nov 26 2017
 - 5.0.1 was released on Sat Dec 23 2017
 - 5.1.0-RC1 was released on Mon Jan 29 2018

## Mailing list activity:

 - As can be seen by the numbers below, the community activity seems to be
   down quite a lot...

 - dev@metamodel.apache.org:
    - 78 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 132 emails sent to list (178 in previous quarter)

 - issues@metamodel.apache.org:
    - 11 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 94 emails sent to list (148 in previous quarter)

 - user@metamodel.apache.org:
    - 25 subscribers (up 1 in the last 3 months):
    - 15 emails sent to list (0 in previous quarter)


## JIRA activity:

 - 9 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 12 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AR: Report from the Apache Mnemonic Project  [Gang Wang]

Description:
   Apache Mnemonic is an open-source Java library for durable object-oriented
   programming on hybrid storage-class memory(e.g. NVM) space. it comes up
   with durable object model (DOM) and durable computing model(DCM) and
   takes full advantages of storage-class memory to simplify the code
   complexity, avoid SerDe/(Un)Marshal, mitigate caching for constructing
   next generation computing platform. Mnemonic makes the storing and
   transmitting of massive linked objects graphs simpler and more efficient.
   The performance tuning could also be mostly converged to a single point
   of tuning place if based on Mnemonic to process and analyze
   linked objects. The programmer is able to focus on durable object
   oriented business logic instead of worrying about how to normalize/join,
   serDe(un)marshal, cache and storing their linked business objects
   with arbitrary complexity.

Issues:
   There are no board-level issues at the moment.

Activity:
    In this period of reporting, we have introduced our project to Alibaba
    JVM Team, one of our contributor presented the details of Mnemonic and
    collected requirements of their business associated with our project.
    We also have talked with China Telecom research team, they also got
    interested in our project and trying to make use of Mnemonic for their
    clustered computing platform, their leader also has provided some
    feedback/suggestion and contributed some code to our project. 
    We feel that more and more industrial customers are beginning to learn
    about how and what they can do for their system if non-volatile memory
    become a generic device for their computing platforms soon.
    Right now, the Durable Object/Computing models are quite new concepts
    but we can expect that will be aware of and adopted quickly in near
    future.
    With the suggestion of one of our contributor, our community has worked
    together to complete a document of Mnemonic tutorial, we also coded some
    examples for the user to get started to learn Mnemonic.
    We have voted a new committer to join our community, he is working for
    constructing our website.

Health Report:
    Basically unchanged since the last report.  Users are generally quiet
    in public and no new users are appearing, but development continues.

PMC Changes:
 - Currently 11 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 1 months.

Committer Base Changes:
 - Currently 13 committers.
 - 1 new committer added on Jan. 8, 2018.

Releases:
 - Last release was v0.10.0 on Mon Nov. 2017
 - Still active development on next major version (0.11.0)


JIRA Activity:
 - 15 JIRA tickets created since the last report (Jan. 2018)
 - Also 10 JIRA tickets closed/resolved this period

Sincerely,
Gang(Gary) Wang on behalf of the Apache Mnemonic PMC


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AS: Report from the Apache Oltu Project  [Antonio Sanso]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AT: Report from the Apache Oozie Project  [Robert Kanter]

## Description:
- Oozie is a workflow scheduler system to manage Apache Hadoop jobs.

## Issues:
- There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
- 5.0.0-beta1 was released on January 24th!
- 4.3.1 was released on February 12th!  It went through a few RCs due to
  various issues that have been resolved.
- Work continues on a 5.0.0 GA release.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 20 PMC members.
- New PMC members:
    - Attila Sasvári was added to the PMC on Mon Jan 29 2018
    - Gézapeti was added to the PMC on Mon Jan 29 2018
    - Peter Bacsko was added to the PMC on Tue Jan 30 2018
    - Satish Saley was added to the PMC on Sun Dec 10 2017

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 24 committers.
- No new committers added in the last 3 months
- Last committer addition was Andras Piros at Mon Oct 16 2017

## Releases:

- 4.3.1 was released on Mon Feb 12 2018
- 5.0.0-beta1 was released on Wed Jan 24 2018

## JIRA activity:

- 55 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
- 54 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AU: Report from the Apache Open Climate Workbench Project  [Michael James Joyce]

Apache Open Climate Workbench is a tool for scalable comparisons of remote
sensing observations to climate model outputs.

Activity has picked up after the holiday/conference season. Core contributors
continue to collaborate and work on the next release. The project is still
working on bringing new Committer/PMC members on board. The project recently
voted to add a new member and is waiting to hear back from them regarding
the invitation to join.

Overall, we continue to see occasional bursts of activity from new contributors
but they tend to leave as quickly as they arrived. GSoC and internships that
PMC members offer at their work provide the most consistent avenue for
new contributors. The PMC will continue to keep an eye out for these new
contributors and work to being them into the fold.

Issues for the board: 
    None

When was the last committer or PMC member elected:
    - Ibrahim Jarif - 26 April 2016
    - Omkar Reddy - 20 January 2016

When was the last release:
    - 1.2.0 - 24 April 2017
    - 1.1.0 - 27 July 2016


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AV: Report from the Apache Perl Project  [Philippe Chiasson]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AW: Report from the Apache Phoenix Project  [James R. Taylor]

## Description: 
 - Apache Phoenix enables SQL-based OLTP and operational analytics 
   for Apache Hadoop
   
## Issues: 
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time 
   
## Activity: 
 - Released 4.13.0 and 4.13.2-CDH (first release compatible with Cloudera's
   Distribution of Hadoop) in the last three months
 - Voting underway on HBase 2.0 compatible release
 - Revived support for HBase 1.1 and HBase 1.2 after community members
   stepped up as release managers (one of which has become a committer).
   
## Health report: 
 - The project is healthy and continues to grow as users look for easy
   ways to gain insight over and manage their ever-increasing Hadoop
   data through standard SQL and JDBC APIs.
   
## PMC changes: 
 - Currently 25 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Sergey Soldatov on Mon Oct 02 2017 
   
## Committer base changes: 
 - Currently 35 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Karan Mehta was added as a committer on Wed Dec 20 2017 
    - Pedro Boado was added as a committer on Tue Jan 30 2018 
   
## Releases: 
 - 4.13.0 was released on Thu Nov 09 2017 
 - 4.13.2-CDH was released on Sat Jan 20 2018 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
 - Mailing list subscriptions are flat
   - dev@phoenix.apache.org:  
     - 228 subscribers (up 5 in the last 3 months): 
     - 2661 emails sent to list (2996 in previous quarter)
   - user@phoenix.apache.org:  
     - 551 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months): 
     - 236 emails sent to list (215 in previous quarter) 
   
## JIRA activity: 
 - 224 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 147 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AX: Report from the Apache POI Project  [Dominik Stadler]

Report from the Apache POI committee [Dominik Stadler]

## Description:
 - Apache POI is a Java library for reading and writing Microsoft Office file
   formats

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 - There is some activity in commits, bugfixes, feature-work and also user
   questions. Work on major release 4.0 is ongoing, some larger contributions
   were merged. A number of bugfixes and some function enhancements/additions
   were done.

   Discussion about a non-maintainer-update of XMLBeans continued, but no
   actual action started there yet.

## Health report:
 - We again saw a constant stream of new bug reports/feature requests which
   indicates that the popularity of Apache POI is still very good. Questions
   via email or on Stackoverflow usually get answers quickly, regularly even
   from people not actively involved in Apache POI development.

   Bug influx is constant or slightly increasing, while man-power spent for
   bug-fixing seems to have stagnated a bit, thus some more bugs are open,
   while there is still quite some progress on bugs, (13 more open with 75
   bugs newly created).

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 30 PMC members.
 - Alain Béarez was added to the PMC on Tue Nov 21 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 37 committers.
 - Alain Béarez was added as a committer on Mon Nov 20 2017

## Releases:

 - Last release was 3.17 on Wed Sep 13 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 - Mostly constant membership numbers, a few un-subscribers for this period,
   not apparent reason for that. POI is a mature project with a stable
   user/developer-base.

 - dev@poi.apache.org:
    - 236 subscribers (down -3 in the last 3 months):
    - 694 emails sent to list (759 in previous quarter)

 - general@poi.apache.org:
    - 136 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months):
    - 0 emails sent to list (0 in previous quarter)

 - user@poi.apache.org:
    - 606 subscribers (down -7 in the last 3 months):
    - 74 emails sent to list (89 in previous quarter)

## Bugzilla Statistics:

 - 75 Bugzilla tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 64 Bugzilla tickets resolved in the last 3 months

 - 505 bugs are open overall (+13)
 - Having 136 enhancements (+2)
 - Thus having 369 actual bugs (+11)
 - 101 of these are waiting for feedback (+3)
 - Thus having 268 actual workable bugs (+8)
 - 5 of the workable bugs have patches available (+-0)
 - Distribution of workable bugs across components: {HSSF=76, XSSF=65,
   HWPF=36, SS Common=34, XWPF=15, XSLF=12, SXSSF=10, POI Overall=7, HPSF=3,
   HSLF=3, POIFS=3, HPBF=1, HSMF=1, OPC=1, SL Common=1}


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AY: Report from the Apache Qpid Project  [Robert Gemmell]

Apache Qpid is a project focused on creating software based on the
Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP), currently providing a
protocol engine library, message brokers written in C++ and Java, a
message router, and client libraries for C++, Java / JMS, .Net,
Python, Perl and Ruby.

# Releases:

- Qpid Broker-J 7.0.0 was released on 14th November 2017 [1].
- Qpid Interop Test 0.1.0 was released on 15th November 2017.
- Qpid Dispatch 1.0.0 was released on 20th November 2017 [2].
- Qpid JMS AMQP 0-x 6.3.0 was released on 20th November 2017.
- Qpid for Java 6.1.5 was released on 22nd November 2017 [1].
- Qpid CPP 1.37.0 was released on 24th November 2017.
- Qpid Python 1.37.0 was released on 25th November 2017.
- Qpid Proton-J 0.24.0 was released on 11th December 2017.
- Qpid JMS 0.28.0 was released on 14th December 2017.
- Qpid Proton 0.19.0 was released on 23rd December 2017.
- Qpid Proton-J 0.25.0 was released on 15th January 2018.
- Qpid JMS 0.29.0 was released on 22nd January 2018.
- Qpid Proton 0.20.0 was released on 29th January 2018.
- Qpid Broker-J 7.0.1 was released on 7th February 2018 [3].
- Qpid Dispatch 0.8.1 was released on 13th February 2018 [2].

[1] Broker-J 7.0.0 and 6.1.5 both addressed CVE-2017-15701.
[2] Dispatch 1.0.0 and 0.8.1 both addressed CVE-2017-15699.
[3] Broker-J 7.0.1 addressed CVE-2018-1298.

CVE-2017-15702 was logged for an issue identified in historic releases but
previously resolved by changes existing in Qpid for Java 6.0.0 in Dec 2015.

# Community:

- The main user and developer mailing lists continue to be active and JIRAs
  are being raised and addressed, in line with prior activity levels.

- Chris Richardson was added as a committer on 15th November 2017.

- There were no new PMC additions in this quarter.
  The most recent new PMC member is Ganesh Murthy, added on 30th Jan 2017.

# Development:

- Work progresses towards a 1.1.0 release of Dispatch router, with various
  improvements and new functionality adding to the 1.0.0 release. A 1.0.1
  release is also under discussion to get some fixes out for important
  defects before 1.1.0.

- Work continues on Qpid Broker-J 7.1.0, adding various improvements to the
  7.0.0 base and refining the test suite following the AMQP 0-x JMS client
  being made independent with its 6.3.0 release. Some broker fixes are also
  being backported to the existing 6.x line for a further bug fix release.

- Proton-C and its language bindings had their 0.19.0 and 0.20.0 releases,
  incorporating various bug fixes and improvements, particularly for the
  Ruby binding, and work continues on more. It is also planned to reorganise
  the Proton repository to better accommodate its existing contents, after
  earlier changes when proton-j was moved to its own independent repo. Work
  continues on Proton-J to incorporate various improvements and fixes useful
  to dependent client/broker/other components.

- The AMQP 1.0 JMS client had its 0.28.0 and 0.29.0 releases, incorporating
  various bug fixes and improvements, and work continues on more.

# Issues:

There are no Board-level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AZ: Report from the Apache REEF Project  [Byung-Gon Chun]

## Description: 
 - Apache REEF (Retainable Evaluator Execution Framework) is a library for
 developing portable applications for cluster resource managers such as
 Apache Hadoop YARN or Apache Mesos.
   
## Issues: 
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time. 
   
## Activity: 
 - Expand the adoption of REEF in Azure
 - Progress towards a REEF runtime for Azure Batch runtime for REEF
 - Progress towards supporting Azure Data Lake Storage
   
## Health report: 
 - Overall, the community is healthy: the community has been achieving
  important milestones and there is a constant flow of bug reports, fixes,
  and discussions.
   
## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 22 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Doug Service on Fri Sep 29 2017 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 34 committers. 
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months 
 - Last committer addition was Doug Service at Tue Apr 11 2017 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - Last release was 0.16 on Thu Aug 10 2017 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - dev@reef.apache.org:  
    - 89 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months): 
    - 146 emails sent to list (546 in previous quarter) 
   
 - user@reef.apache.org:  
    - 19 subscribers (up 4 in the last 3 months): 
    - 0 emails sent to list (0 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 19 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 13 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BA: Report from the Apache River Project  [Peter Firmstone]

## Description:

 - Apache River provides a platform for dynamic discovery and lookup search of
   network services.  Services may be implemented in a number of languages,
   while clients are required to be jvm based (presently at least), to allow
   proxy jvm byte code to be provisioned dynamically.

## Issues:

 No significant issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 Interest in making Jini specifications programming language agnostic.

Release roadmap:
>
>  River 3.0.1 - thread leak fix
>  River 3.1 - Modular build restructure (&  binary release)
>  River 3.2 - Input validation 4 Serialization, delayed unmarshalling&  safe
   ServiceRegistrar  lookup service.
>  River 3.3 - OSGi support

## Health report:

 - Minimal activity at present on dev.
 - No recent commit activity, but there are plans for more work in near
   future.

 - Future Direction:

   * Target IOT space with support for OSGi and IPv6 (fixes required
     prior to announcement)
   * Input validation for java deserialization - prevents DOS and Gadget
     attacks.
   * IPv6 Multicast Service Discovery (River currently only support IPv4
     multicast discovery).
   * Delayed unmarshalling for Service Lookup and Discovery (includes
     SafeServiceRegistrar mentioned in release roadmap), so authentication can
     occur prior to downloading service proxy's, this addresses a long
     standing security issue with service lookup while significantly improving
     performance under some use cases.
   * Security fixes for SSL endpoints, updated to TLS v1.2 with removal of
     support for insecure cyphers.
   * Maven build to replace existing ant built that uses classdepandjar, a
     bytecode dependency analysis build tool.
   * Updating the Jini specifications.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 12 PMC members.
 - One new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Dan Rollo on Fri 1st December 2017

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 16 committers.

## Releases:

 - River-3.0.0 was released on Wed Oct 05 2016

## Mailing list activity:

 - Relatively quiet in comparison to recent months, however this appears as a
   result of reaching concensus after a period of discussion.

## JIRA activity:

- Activity around making Jini specifications programming language agnostic.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BB: Report from the Apache RocketMQ Project  [Xiaorui Wang]

## Description:
 - Apache RocketMQ is a distributed messaging and streaming platform with low
   latency, high performance and reliability, trillion-level capacity and
   flexible scalability.

## Issues:
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
 - The donated RocketMQ CPP SDK project is going through IP clearance process.
 - The first TLP release Apache RocketMQ 4.2.0 was released on Mon Dec 18
   2017.
 - The new version of Apache RocketMQ site has been published.
 - Apache RocketMQ provides spring boot starter now.

## Health report:
 Within the past three months:
 - 40 GitHub pull requests were opened and 20 were closed
 - 35 commits were made by 11 authors, 6 authors were not committers

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 10 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - The last time a new PMC member was elected for the project was on July 13,
   2017. dongeforever was added a PMC member.

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 15 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - The last time a committer was added to the project was on July 19, 2017.
   linjunjie was added a committer.

## Releases:

 - ROCKETMQ-4.2.0 was released on Mon Dec 18 2017

## Mailing list activity:
 - users@rocketmq.apache.org:
    - 104 subscribers (up 13 in the last 3 months):
    - 31 emails sent to list (34 in previous quarter)

 - dev@rocketmq.apache.org:
    - 92 subscribers (up 9 in the last 3 months):
    - 388 emails sent to list (639 in previous quarter)

 - issues@rocketmq.apache.org:
    - 45 subscribers (up 6 in the last 3 months):
    - 498 emails sent to list (550 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 53 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 73 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BC: Report from the Apache Roller Project  [David M. Johnson]

## Description:

Apache Roller is a full-featured, Java-based blog server that works well on
Tomcat and MySQL, and is known to run on other Java servers and relational
databases. The ASF blog site at blogs.apache.org runs on Roller 5.1.2 Tomcat
and MySQL.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:

 - Almost no activity this past quarter, only one change to fix a unit test.
 - The core Roller community is small and with low activity levels.
 - There is ongoing work to create a modernized UI using Bootstrap with
   Struts. See also:
   https://rollerweblogger.org/roller/entry/modernizing-the-roller-ui

## Health report:

 - Community is made-up of part-time volunteers with very limited time to
   devote to Roller.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 5 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Kohei Nozaki on Sun Dec 06 2015

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 8 committers.
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months
 - Last committer addition was Kohei Nozaki at Mon Mar 09 2015

## Releases:

- Last release was 5.2.0 on Sun Nov 05 2017

## Mailing list activity:

 Subscriber counts could be taken to mean there is still some interest in
 Apache Roller. The low email counts reflect the low level of development and
 user-support activity.

 - dev@roller.apache.org:
    - 158 subscribers (up 1 in the last 3 months):
    - 1 emails sent to list (31 in previous quarter)

 - user@roller.apache.org:
    - 280 subscribers (down -2 in the last 3 months):
    - 4 emails sent to list (5 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 2 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BD: Report from the Apache Santuario Project  [Colm O hEigeartaigh]

## Description: 
 - Library implementing XML Digital Signature Specification & XML Encryption
   Specification.
   
## Issues: 
 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time
   
## Activity: 
 - There were two new releases over the last quarter of the Apache Santuario
   XML Security for Java project, 2.0.10 and 2.1.1. These were both minor bug
   fix releases with some additional support for some new signing algorithms.
   There were a number of commits for the C++ library in preparation of a new
   release.
   
## Health report: 
 - Apache Santuario is a mature and stable project that has reached a point
   where not too many fixes are required, as it is a set of implementations
   of some specifications that are quite old now. It is actively managed by
   the PMC. Right now there are no obvious potential new committers for the
   project.
   
## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 6 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Marc Giger on Wed Apr 03 2013 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 16 committers. 
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report. 
 - Last committer addition was Marc Giger in July 2012.
   
## Releases: 
   
 - Apache Santuario XML Security for Java 2.0.10 was released on Fri Jan 26 
   2018 
 - Apache Santuario XML Security for Java 2.1.1 was released on Fri Jan 26 
   2018 
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 1 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 5 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BE: Report from the Apache Serf Project  [Bert Huijben]

## Description:
   The serf library is a high performance C-based HTTP client library
   built upon the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) library. Serf is the
   default client library of Apache Subversion, Apache OpenOffice and
   mod_pagespeed.

## Issues:
   There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
   There has not been any in the project, but given that the Subversion
   project is in the last stabalization steps around a new release that
   is not unexpected. When new features are scheduled for the next release
   I expect things will get more active.

## Health report: 
   Activity is at a normal, fairly quiet level.

## PMC & Committer changes: 
   Currently 12 PMC members and 13 committers. We added Evgeny Kotkov
   as Committer and PMC member last April.

## Releases:
   Apache Serf 1.3.9 was released on Thu Sep 01 2016

## Mailing list and Jira activity:
   Normal slow activity.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment BF: Report from the Apache SIS Project  [Martin Desruisseaux]

## Description:

Apache Spatial Information System (SIS) is a Java library for developing
geospatial applications. SIS enables better representation of spatial objects
for searching, archiving, or other relevant spatial needs. The base of the SIS
library is modelled according international standards published jointly by the
Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO).

## Issues:

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

Since last report, we had a release of Apache SIS 0.8. Since then, the main
new development is integration of work offered by a contributor
(ImageMatters) last spring. This work upgrades the XML format for geospatial
 metadata, from its legacy ISO 19139:2007 format to the new ISO 19115-3:2016
 format, while keeping compatibility with the legacy format. This work impacts
 about 500 classes.

No progress has been made yet on the integration of Google Summer of Code
(GSoC) projects mentioned in the previous report. However we may have a
 student (not related to GSoC) for continuing the project on JavaFX geospatial
 widgets.

Our proposal to the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) for a process for
evaluating the reliability of geospatial referencing softwares, mentioned in
our previous report, has not been retained for this year. We may propose it
again next year. However the GeoAPI working group has been formally created
and will hold its first OGC meeting in March. Since Apache SIS is a GeoAPI
implementation, this will define parts of our next API. On a related note, the
Java Community Process approved creation of JSR-385 [1] for a Unit API 2.0
(Apache SIS 0.8 is an implementation of Unit API 1.0).

The user mailing list has seen posts from gvSIG developers, who are
considering using Apache SIS for their community [2].

## Health report:

The project is reported healthy according the Apache Committee Report Helper.
Mailing list activity is globally at the same level than in previous cycle
(more on user@…, less on dev@…).

## PMC changes:

  * Currently 20 PMC members.
  * No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
  * Last PMC addition was Johann Sorel on September 7, 2017

## Committer base changes:

  * Currently 21 committers.
  * No new committers added in the last 3 months.
  * Last committer addition was Johann Sorel at Thu Mar 31 2016.

## Releases:

  * 0.8 was released on November 24, 2017.
  * Next release will be 1.0.

## Mailing list activity:

  * dev@sis.apache.org: o 68 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months) o 23
    emails sent to list (36 in previous quarter)
  * user@sis.apache.org: o 49 subscribers (up 3 in the last 3 months) o 14
    emails sent to list (2 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

  * 26 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
  * 6 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months

[1] https://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=385
[2] https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/cecec
 8cc600b97279215c4db3e0c98bd06acf61389c8632901c94e0a@%3Cuser.sis.apache.org%3E


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BG: Report from the Apache Spark Project  [Matei Alexandru Zaharia]

Apache Spark is a fast and general engine for large-scale data processing. It 
offers high-level APIs in Java, Scala, Python and R as well as a rich set of
libraries including stream processing, machine learning, and graph analytics. 

Project status:

- We released Spark 2.2.1 on Dec 1st, 2017, with bug fixes for the 2.2 line.
  Like our previous release, this was done by a new release manager.

- Voting is under way for Spark 2.3.0, a new feature release that will bring
  several large features. These includes support for running on Kubernetes
  (now merged into the project), a low-latency continuous processing mode
  for applications that wish to prioritize latency, faster UDFs in Python
  using data batching through Apache Arrow, images as a data type for the ML
  library, and other features. All of the larger features mentioned here
  were proposed as SPIPs in the last year.

Trademarks:

- We are continuing engagement with various organizations.

Latest releases:

- December 1, 2017: Spark 2.2.1
- October 9, 2017: Spark 2.1.2
- July 11, 2017: Spark 2.2.0
- May 2, 2017: Spark 2.1.1

Committers and PMC:

- We added four new PMC members in the past three months
  (Felix Cheung, Holden Karau, Yanbo Liang and Xiao Li).
- The latest committer was added on September 22nd, 2017
  (Tejas Patil). Votes are currently in progress for
  several other new committers based on recent contributions.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BH: Report from the Apache Subversion Project  [Stefan Sperling]

Apache Subversion exists to be universally recognized and adopted as
an open-source, centralized version control system characterized by
its reliability as a safe haven for valuable data; the simplicity of
its model and usage; and its ability to support the needs of a wide
variety of users and projects, from individuals to large-scale
enterprise operations.

* Board Issues

  There are no Board-level issues of concern.

* Community

  The community is healthy and active. New features are being designed
  and developed, and bug reports are being handled. Our user support
  forums (Email and IRC) receive questions and answers regularly.

  Our last committer additions happened in October 2017:
    Pavel Lyalyakin who has been contributing to the project's website.
    Troy Curtis Jr who has been contributing to SVN's Python 3 bindings.

* Releases

  There were no new releases published since August 10 2017.
  The current supported releases are still 1.9.7 and 1.8.19.

  Several bug fixes for our stable release series have since been proposed,
  implying that new stable releases can be expected in the near future.
  None of the proposed bug fixes have security implications.

  We continue moving towards the first GA release of Subversion 1.10.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment BI: Report from the Apache Syncope Project  [Francesco Chicchiriccò]

## Description:
Apache Syncope is an Open Source system for managing digital identities in
enterprise environments.

## Issues:
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
The last months were again busy with fixes, new features and enhancements for
the stable branch, which led to the release of 2.0.7. Addition of new features
on the master branch (for next stable 2.1.0) seems to be paused during this
quarter.

## Health report:
Discussions about new features and improvements keep appearing and being
followed up in dev@.

Newcomers approach user@ and are getting supported by various members of the
community.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 12 PMC members.
- Matteo Alessandroni was added as a PMC member on Fri Dec 22 2017
- Last PMC addition: Fri Dec 22 2017 (Matteo Alessandroni)

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 21 committers.
- Matteo Alessandroni was added as a committer on Fri Jul 28 2017
- Last committer addition: Fri Jul 28 2017 (Matteo Alessandroni)

## Releases:

  - 2.0.7 was released on Fri Dec 22 2017


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BJ: Report from the Apache SystemML Project  [Jon Deron Eriksson]


## Description:

SystemML provides declarative large-scale machine learning (ML) that aims at
flexible specification of ML algorithms and automatic generation of hybrid
runtime plans ranging from single node, in-memory computations, to distributed
computations such as Apache Hadoop MapReduce and Apache Spark.

## Issues:

- There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

- The Apache SystemML 1.0.0 release was approved on December 12, 2017.
- We added our first new committer since becoming a top-level project on
  October 25, 2017.
- We are currently planning our 1.1 release.

## Health report:

- Code activity is healthy with 237 commits in the last 3 months.
- Community growth is healthy with our last new committer approved in October.
- Communication is healthy on mailing list, JIRAs, and pull requests.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 23 PMC members.
- Felix Schüler was elected as PMC member on April 19, 2017.

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 24 committers.
- Krishna Kalyan was added as a committer on October 25, 2017.

## Releases:

- Version 1.0.0 was released on December 12, 2017.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BK: Report from the Apache Trafodion Project  [Pierre Smits]

## Description:
 - Apache Trafodion extends the Apache Hadoop ecosystem to guarantee
   transactional integrity and operational workloads for new kinds of Big Data
   applications.

## Issues:
 - there are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
 - In January graduation issues were addressed and successfully concluded.
   Mailing list security@trafodion.a.o was implemented and identified
   moderators were associated with the mailing list. Our Website was updated
   to reflect the implementation.

 - In January PMC Members were asked to propose new candidates for privileges
   (commit and PMC). 2 candidates for commit privileges were indentified, and
   procedural votes for both were called. After both votes were closed, both
   candidates (Sean Boeder and Liu Yu) were invited to accept their
   privileges. Both candidates did and onboarding processes were initiated.

 - In January the official graduation announcement was designed (in
   collaboration with the Marketing and Publicity office), and was sent to
   various news agencies, and to the public via announce.a.o. This led to
   several take-ups via twitter, linked-in and other social media platforms.

 - Community interactions via the mailing lists is looking good (see
   statistics).

 - Social Media attraction:

   - Twitter: 246 (+18) followers, 82 (+9) tweets, 66 likes

## Health report:
 - Given the details under the activity section, the PMC regards the project
   as healthy.


## PMC changes:
 - Currently 11 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months

## Committer base changes:
 - Currently 20 committers.
 - New commmitters:
    - Liu Yu was added as a committer on Mon Feb 05 2018
    - Sean Broeder was added as a committer on Mon Feb 05 2018

## Releases:
 - during the last quarter we made no new release available to the public. Our
   last release is from 2017-05-01, happened while being incubating

 - We are working towards our next release, 2.2. Contributor Ming Liu is the 
   Release Manager. This was already brought forward in the last quarter while
   incubating, but did not gather - at the time - enough binding votes in
   general at incubator.a.o.

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 107 subscribers (up 4 in the last 3 months):
    - 468 emails sent to list (354 in previous quarter)

 - codereview@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 27 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 647 emails sent to list (483 in previous quarter)

 - issues@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 38 subscribers (down -2 in the last 3 months):
    - 1059 emails sent to list (637 in previous quarter)

 - user@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 110 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months):
    - 58 emails sent to list (14 in previous quarter)

 - private@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 18 subscribers (down 3, result of post-incubation clean-up)

 - security@trafodion.apache.org:
    - 6 subscribers

## JIRA activity:
 - 155 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 90 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BL: Report from the Apache Turbine Project  [Georg Kallidis]

## Description:

Apache Turbine is a servlet based framework that allows experienced Java
developers to quickly build web applications. Turbine allows you to
personalize the web sites and to use user logins to restrict access to parts
of your application.

Turbine is a matured and well established framework that is used as the base
of many other projects.

## Issues:

- GitHub mirroring Turbine core resolved (INFRA-15106).
- No more board-level issues at this time.

## Health report:

- The Turbine project has had a busy quarter by our measures.
- Fulcrum and Turbine code and discussion activity by active PMC members
  preparing Fulcrum Intake, Security and Turbine Core releases
- Upgrade to Java 8 and other non backward compatible changes are
  resolved/discussed/expected after bugfix release of Turbine core, Fulcrum
  components will follow.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 9 PMC members.
- Jeffery Painter was added to the PMC on Sun Nov 12 2017 (last change)

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 11 committers.
- No new changes to the committer base since last report.
- The last change to the committer base was the addition of Georg Kallidis on
  Sept 19 2012.

## Releases:

Fulcrum component project:
- Fulcrum Security 1.1.2 was released on Fri Feb 02 2018

Turbine core project:
- Last Release of the Turbine Core component 4.0 on Nov 8 2017
- Turbine 4.0 Webapp Archetype postponed waiting for bugfixing Turbine Core
  release


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BM: Report from the Apache Usergrid Project  [Todd Nine]

## Description:
 -  Usergrid is Backend-as-a-Service (BaaS) composed of an integrated database
    (Cassandra), a query engine (Elastic Search), and application layer and
    client tier with SDKs for developers.

## Issues:
 -  There are no issues requiring board attention at this time

## Activity:
 - Implementation of several indexing configuration options to allow user
   customization
 - Bug fixes and administative tooling improvements

## Health report:
 - Usergrid is in bugfix only status.  No new features are under active
   development.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 25 PMC members.
- No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
- Last PMC addition was Mike Dunker on Mon Jan 18 2016

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 15 committers.
- No new committers added in the last 3 months
- Last committer addition was Robert Walsh at Sun Feb 26 2017

## Releases:

- Last release was 2.1.0 on Wed Feb 17 2016

## Mailing list activity:

- dev@usergrid.apache.org:
   - 109 subscribers (up 1 in the last 3 months):
   - 64 emails sent to list (29 in previous quarter)

- user@usergrid.apache.org:
   - 144 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months):
   - 4 emails sent to list (1 in previous quarter)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BN: Report from the Apache Velocity Project  [Nathan Bubna]

## Description:
- Java-based template engine

## Issues:
- No issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:
- A few site updates, some user questions, and fair bit of JIRA cleanup.

## Health report:
- Project is stable and quiet. Maintenance issues and user questions are all
  handled promptly, but there's no development work to speak of.

## PMC changes:

- Currently 9 PMC members.
- Michael Osipov was added to the PMC on Thu Jul 27 2017

## Committer base changes:

- Currently 14 committers.
- No new committers added in the last 3 months
- Last committer addition was Michael Osipov at Mon Jan 30 2017

## Releases:

- None this period.

## Mailing list activity:

 - Mostly issue clean up by Michael

 - dev@velocity.apache.org:
    - 125 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 78 emails sent to list (17 in previous quarter)

 - general@velocity.apache.org:
    - 80 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 0 emails sent to list (1 in previous quarter)

 - user@velocity.apache.org:
    - 294 subscribers (down -4 in the last 3 months):
    - 28 emails sent to list (16 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 4 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 12 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BO: Report from the Apache Whimsy Project  [Sam Ruby]

## Description:
  Tools that help automate various administrative tasks or information lookup
  activities

## Issues:

  None

## Health report:

  We continue to have more than adequate oversight, with two to three active
  committers, and two to four occasional committers.

## Development:

 - The board agenda tool now uses Service Workers and ES2017 when supported by
   the browser being used.  For the moment, this means that load times
   (including loading of tabs) is considerably faster for users of Chrome and
   Firefox.  Both Safari and Edge have the necessary support included in
   their latest bets, so it will only be a matter of time before users of
   these browsers see the benefit too.

 - Various improvements to the roster tool, most notably: showing moderation,
   chairs, and improvements to the UI for adding existing committers to a PMC.

 - Development continues on a tool to assist PMCs with inviting new
   committers.  Once deployed, this tool will reduce errors and reduce the
   workload on the Secretary.  Craig is leading up the coding of this effort.

## PMC and committer base:

  - Currently 10 committers, all on the PMC.
  - Last addition: Thu Jun 2017 (John D. Ament)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BP: Report from the Apache Xalan Project  [Steven J. Hathaway]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BQ: Report from the Apache Xerces Project  [Michael Glavassevich]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment BR: Report from the Apache XML Graphics Project  [Glenn Adams]

## Description:

 - The Apache XML Graphics Project is responsible for software

   intended for the creation & maintenance of the conversion of XML

   formats to graphical output & related software components.

  

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

  

## Activity:

 - During this reporting period, activity on the three sub-projects

   has remained low, with 9 issues resolved or closed during this

   reporting period.

  

## Health report:

 - The level of community and developer activity remains at a

   low level for a relatively mature product, albeit one

   with a fair number of outstanding unresolved issues.

  

## PMC changes:

   

 - Currently 11 PMC members.

 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months

 - Last PMC addition was Simon Steiner on Wed Jan 20 2016

   

## Committer base changes:

   

 - Currently 21 committers.

 - No new committers added in the last 3 months

 - Last committer addition was Matthias Reischenbacher at Wed May 13 2015


## Releases:

   

 - Last release was Batik-1.9.1 on Tue Aug 01 2017

   

## Mailing list activity:

 

- Slight decrease in subscribers of 3%, down from 1093 to 1065.

- Mail lists show an decrease in traffic of 38%, down from 484 to 183.


------------------------------------------------------
Attachment BS: Report from the Apache Fineract Project [Myrle Krantz]

## Description:

Apache Fineract (\’fīn-,ә-,rakt\) is an open source system for core banking as
a platform. Fineract provides a reliable, robust, and affordable solution for
entrepreneurs, financial institutions, and service providers to offer
financial services to the world’s 2 billion underbanked and unbanked.


## Issues:


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the February 21, 2018 board meeting.
