                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                          February 21, 2007


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the Chair at 10:08.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Guests:

        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Yoav Shapira
        Jason van Zyl

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of January 17, 2007

       See: board_minutes_2007_01_17.txt

       Minutes of the meeting of January 17, 2007 were approved by
       General Consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg noted that he's been speaking at a few conferences lately,
       talking about the ASF (and other things). He suggested that when
       people give talks about the ASF, that they contact the PRC so the
       word can get spread.

    B. President [Sander]

       Sander reported that our sysadmin's contract is up for
       renewal (end of March) and that he will negotiate a 6 month
       extension.
 
    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       We now have confirmed sponsors at each level.  Partial invoices
       have been issued to Covalent and HP.  A new invoice for the
       second installment for Google will be issued now that we have
       enough sponsors lined up.

       Continued difficulties with PayPal have persisted.  In one case,
       after consultation with other Directors, we have issued a
       check due to a disputed chargeback not being resolved in
       anyone's favor.

       Our contract with our secretarial assistant expires at the end of
       this month.  Our contract with our sysadmin will expire at the
       end of March.  Our fiscal year will close on April 30.

       Current balances (as of 2/19/2007):

        Paypal             $  2,210.51 (+$      0.00)
        Checking           $ 33,688.33 (-$  4,268.20)
        Savings            $202,396.24 (+$    487.70)
        Total              $238,295.08 (-$  3,780.50)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       No real updates to report since last month. Scanning of
       docs proceeding, with all incoming FAXes being immediately
       scanned and filed, and the backlog being done as available.
       We finally (!) received the full, original copy of our D&O
       Insurance policy with the Carolina Casualty Insurance Company.
       This is being scanned and will be filed as well.

       We are due for a members meeting around May/June of this
       year. Candidate dates will be proposed and floated by the
       membership.

       All received donation checks have been forwarded to the
       ASF lockbox. We've received none since last month.

       Paypal issues have been resolved by "working" with Paypal.
       Justin and myself are now considered official contacts
       for the ASF by Paypal.

       We have received no correspondence requiring board attention.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

       The CLA FAQ proposed at last month's meeting was reviewed
       by our counsel.  Small changes were made and an additional
       Q&A was added to clarify the future patent claims issue.
       The FAQs have been posted to legal-discuss where there is
       some discussion to make a very minor clarification.  In short,
       I believe this issue is pretty much resolved.

       A pretty bad trademark violation was reported, which I forwarded
       to the PRC and assisted them in an initial draft (with a review
       through counsel).

    B. VP of JCP [Geir]

       There are no major issues to report outside of the continuing
       discussion we are having with Sun around the terms of the 
       JCK license for Java SE.  On that front, we seem to have
       come to an impasse.  I was hoping to have someting more 
       substantial to report.  Sun is aware of this meeting and
       my update to the board.  Next steps will be to get advice
       from the legal councellors starting with the SFLC.  
       Intent is to validate our interpretation of the terms of the 
       offered license, and hopefully see if they can suggest 
       steps forward, or intercession on our behalf.  Next week
       is the JCP EC Face-to-Face meeting, and we'll do a presentation
       there of the issue to the full SE/EE and ME EC members.

       In other JCP activities, we engaged with Sun on JSR-311, the
       "REST API" for Java, and was able to successfully relay 
       our community's position on how the JSR and resulting java
       package namespace should be titled.  Our position was that
       "REST" should be kept out of the package namespace in 
       order that it isn't percieved to be THE definitive API
       for REST programming in Java.  Sun kindly changed the 
       title and package name, and we thank Sun for their
       consideration.

       Otherwise, there are no other things of signficance. 

 6. Board Committee Reports

    A. Apache Security Team [Mark Cox / Ken]

       See Attachment 1 [no report received]

       Jim noted that he had seen an incoming report that was
       signed by a key that only BenL could decrypt. He was
       wondering if the security team had a key that all members
       could use and whether this one report was sent to BenL
       directly and not to the security team. Sander indicated that
       to his recollection, 3 people had the key: BenL, Marc and Lars.
       This is to be double checked.
       
       Ken requested status on the CA issue and what the current
       plans/hopes for client certs were.

    B. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 2

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Conference Planning Committee [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment 3

       Greg indicated that he knew some folks that would like to host
       AC/Asia in Korea.

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Audit Committee [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment 4

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Public Relations Committee [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 5

       Jim also updated the board on the status of the trademark
       violation noted by Cliff.  The violator has made some requested
       changes, but continues to use our trade names in a way that may
       mislead consumers.  The PRC is continuing discussions with the
       violator.

       Approved by General Consent.

 7. Other Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Sander]

       See Attachment A

       Greg noted his congratulations on the 1.7 release!

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Cocoon Project [Reinhard Poetz / Dirk]

       See Attachment B

       Justin asked why Daisy used Community Contribution Agreement and
       questioned whether we should proceed to finalize it. Reinhard responded
       that the use of the CCA was proposed by Roy Fielding and Joe Schaefer.
       He also indicated that finishing the CCA would be very much appreciated.

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Henri]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache HiveMind Project [James Carman / Greg]

       See Attachment D

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache HTTP Server Project [Roy T. Fielding / Justin]

       See Attachment E

       Cliff indicated that he would follow-up regarding any export
       control issues.

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Lenya Project [Gregor J. Rothfuss / Sam]

       See Attachment F

       Justin and Jim indicated their desire that a Director keep an eye on
       the project, due to the concern noted in the report about the
       long-term health of it. Sam volunteered to start watching it.

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Cliff]

       See Attachment G

       Justin noted that the lack of quorum on votes worried him and that
       it is worth keeping a watch on.

       Jim noted that it was nice to see that they have a defined set of
       bylaws.

       Henri commented that the report seems to touch on a disagreement
       between Greg and Roy on the scope of a chair's powers. His
       understanding of Greg's view is that the chair should not be bound
       by the bylaws - if it's causing problems for the community
       then Curt can revoke Elias' commit rights regardless of bylaws.
       Henri did note that it sounds like Curt is doing a lot of good
       cleanup in Logging and that it's good to see some of the other
       log4x projects having activity regardless of log4j slowdown.

       Greg noted that he is comfortable with the Chair simply removing
       non-responsive members in an effort to reestablish a PMC that can
       reach quorum. He also noted that the board/ASF does not recognize
       "emeritus" PMC members. if a PMC wants to record that, it is up to
       them.

       Approved by General Consent.

    H. Apache Perl Project [Geoffrey Young / Jim]

       See Attachment H

       Approved by General Consent.

    I. Apache Santuario Project [Berin Lautenbach / Sander]

       See Attachment I

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache Velocity Project [Henning Schmiedehausen / Ken]

       See Attachment J

       There was a discussion regarding the 'vote-then-build' vs. the
       'build-then-vote' meme. It was agreed that, in all cases,
       what must be voted on (and approved) is the actual release
       tarball/jar-file/whatever. No software can be released without
       the actual released entity being voted on and approved. Jim
       to remind PMCs of the groundrule Release Guidelines.

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache Xalan Project [Brian Minchau / Greg]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache Xerces Project [Gareth Reakes / Jim]

       See Attachment L

       There was further discussion regarding the contribution from
       Lucian Holland containing an initial implementation of the StAX
       Event API along with several test cases. It was noted that
       Lucian has an iCLA on file, but that no CCLA or Grant of
       the work was provided. Jim followed-up with Gareth and Michael
       Glavassevich and they said that the work was done exclusively
       by Lucian. When first donated, they had asked him to
       provide a grant, as further protection. Jim to follow up, but
       it appears this is a non-issue since it's covered under his
       iCLA

       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Henri]

       See Attachment M

       There was discussion regarding the board's understanding that the
       XML Project was "going away". Sander noted that it hinges on the
       migration of Axkit and Xindice, which could be sped up. 

       Approved by General Consent.

    N. Apache XML Graphics Project [Jeremias Maerki / Cliff]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent.

    O. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Dirk]

       See Attachment O

       Justin asked if a report would be due in two months following
       the quarterly schedule. Martin responded that the normal schedule
       would have been one in March.

       Justin wondered if anything could be added by the board to the
       issue of so many "inactive" projects. Sam noted that a good
       rule would be that inactive projects need someone to mentor the
       project to become active again. Sander and the rest of the board
       agreed.

       Approved by General Consent.

    P. Apache Harmony Project [Geir Magnusson Jr. / Justin]

       See Attachment P

       Justin asked if OpenJDK was Sun's GPL-released version of Java. Geir
       responded that it was, but as Sun retains copyright, we have
       encouraged them to relicense things the ASF can collaborate on,
       such as javac, etc...

       Approved by General Consent.

    Q. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

       Justin wondered if someone on dev@httpd interested in helping to
       port rivet to Apache 2.x;  A minimal port should be straightfoward,
       he thought.

       The board discussed an email which suggested that the Tcl
       Project was "dead" and should just be removed. Jim noted that, within
       a hours of the email, there were email responses, from Tcl members,
       taking issue with the suggestion. This, at least, suggests that
       the team is active enough to handle events as they arise and that
       the project wasn't quite dead yet. Of course, there are distinctions
       regarding dead projects, stable-but-in-maintenance-mode projects and
       inactive  projects, which will need to be hashed out. Sam noted that
       he was not comfortable with "halfway mothballing"; the essence of the
       ASF is community.

       Approved by General Consent.

    R. Apache Labs Project [Stefano Mazzocchi / Jim]

       See Attachment R

       Justin shared with the board the fact that he had been told by some
       that Labs was really intended to replace a PMC's sandbox (where the
       Lab is a new branch of an existing project - i.e. related to an existing
       project).  He indicated that this was not his understanding. The board
       agreed; this was not and is not the purpose for Labs. Jim will follow
       up with Stefano to see what can be done to make this clear.

       Approved by General Consent.

    S. Apache MINA Project [Trustin Lee / Ken]

       See Attachment S

       Approved by General Consent.

    T. Apache OFBiz Project [David E. Jones / Justin]

       See Attachment T

       Approved by General Consent.

    U. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Sam]

       See Attachment U

       Henri noted his approval of the site but also noted that the
       commercial support link should be open to anyone. Sam asked If Geir
       was aware ofthe lack of access to the JPA TCK. Jim responded that Geir
       was and had responded to the PMC and dev list.

       Approved by General Consent.

    V. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Sander]

       See Attachment V

       Approved by General Consent.

    W. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Brian McCallister / Dirk]

       See Attachment W

       Approved by General Consent.

    X. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Cliff]

       See Attachment X

       Jim indicated that the committer summary provided in the report was
       good, and accurate.

       Approved by General Consent.

    Y. Apache Incubator Project [Noel Bergman / Henri]

       See Attachment Y

       Sam noted his feelings that the incubator is truly becoming a mini
       ASF.

       Approved by General Consent.

 8. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache Felix Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software implementing the OSGi Service Platform
       and other software that is associated with or related to
       the OSGi Service Platform for distribution at no charge to
       the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Felix Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Felix Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software implementing the OSGi Service Platform
       and other software that is associated with or related to
       the OSGi Service Platform; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Felix" be and
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Felix Project, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache Felix Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Felix Project:

         * Upayavira         <upayavira@apache.org>
         * Alex Karasulu     <akarasulu@apache.org>
         * Berin Loritsch    <bloritsch@apache.org>
         * Carsten Ziegeler  <cziegeler@apache.org>
         * Matteo Demuru     <demuru@apache.org>
         * Enrique Rodriguez <erodriguez@apache.org>
         * Francesco Furfari <furfari@apache.org>
         * Stefano Lenzi     <lenzi@apache.org>
         * Marcel Offermans  <marrs@apache.org>
         * Noel Bergman      <noel@apache.org>
         * Karl Pauls        <pauls@apache.org>
         * Richard Hall      <rickhall@apache.org>
         * Sylvain Wallez    <sylvain@apache.org>
         * Timothy Bennett   <tbennett@apache.org>
         * Trustin Lee       <trustin@apache.org>
         * Rob Walker        <walkerr@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Richard Hall
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Felix, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until
       a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Felix Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator Felix podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator Felix podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       PMC are hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 6A, Establish the Apache Felix Project, was
       tabled due to concern over the initial member list.

    B. Establish the Apache Roller Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of 
       open-source software related to the Roller blog server, 
       for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Roller Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Roller Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of open-source 
       software related to the Roller blog server; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Roller" be and
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Roller Project, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache Roller Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Roller Project:

         * Anil Gangolli               <gangolli@apache.org>
         * Allen Gilliland             <agilliland@apache.org>
         * Dave Johnson                <snoopdave@apache.org>
         * Matt Raible                 <mraible@apache.org>
         * Craig Russell               <clr@apache.org>
         * Matthew Schmidt             <mattschmidt@apache.org>
         * Elias Torres                <eliast@apache.org>
         * Henri Yandell               <bayard@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Dave Johnson
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Roller, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until
       a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Roller Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Roller Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Roller Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator Roller podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator Roller podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       PMC are hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 6B, Establish the Apache Roller Project, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

 9. Discussion Items

    None

10. Review Outstanding Action Items

    None

11. Unfinished Business

    None

12. New Business

    None

13. Announcements

    None

14. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at
    12:13.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Status report for the Apache Security Team


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

The Travel Assistance Team was just boot-strapped last month.
During the previous few weeks, we requested, and obtained, the
mailing list for the team. We are currently working on finalizing
a budget for approval in time for ApacheCon 2007/EU assistance.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Committee

* ApacheCon 2007/EU

ApacheCon 2007/EU in Amsterdam is coming along.  There were 251
proposals submitted, of which 71 were accepted and 10 more accepted
provisionally as fallback sessions.

The scheduling meeting took place in the Atlanta hotel where ApacheCon
2007/US is going to be held later this year, so it served double duty.

The Amsterdam conference is scheduled the same week as the local
Queen's Day holiday, with the result that there will be only one day
of training sessions and standalone hackathon.  The hotel fee
structure is different in Europe, which means that the expense of the
standalone hackathon was visibly itemised rather than being embedded
in other expenses as is usually the case.  Lacking a sponsor for the
hackathon, with the hotel fee structure being what it is, and the
conference expense and revenue forecasts being what they were, it was
proposed that the hackathon expense be covered by attendees, to the
tune of EUR 80 for the one day.  (The room cost is covered by other
expenses for the rest of the event due to multi-purposing.)  This
ignited something of a flamewar on the members mailing list, with
much vitriol and mostly baseless accusations, resulting in rancour and
defensiveness and lowered morale on the part of several of the concom
volunteers.  The flamewar appears to have died down.

* Per-event teams

The concom has essentially decided to split up the conference support
work (and responsibility) into individual teams, allowing them to
focus more closely on specific events and relieving the current shared
global responsibility for all events.  The first team lead, for
Amsterdam 2007/EU, has been selected: Justin Erenkrantz.

* Potential events

We have been approached by individuals in India and Peru who have much
enthusiam for hosting ApacheCon events in their respective regions.
At the 2007/EU scheduling meeting we spent about two hours on IRC with
Hernán Pachas from Lima, and the conclusion was to work with him to
try to have an ApacheCon event co-located with USMP's VISION2008
conference in October 2008.  Due to language difficulties and the lack
of local ASF personnel, we expect the event will be something like the
2006/Asia conference, for which near total responsibility was assumed
by the local organisers.

* Upcoming conferences

Events for which teams are forming or need to be formed include:

- 2007/Asia (perhaps)
- 2007/US (Atlanta, Georgia, USA)
- 2008/EU
- 2008/Asia (perhaps)
- 2008/US (New Orleans, Louisiana, USA)
- 2008/South America (Lima, Peru)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Audit Committee

The Audit committee are currently inactive. The outstanding issue is
to find an external auditor for the ASF accounts, but this is not
actively being worked on.

It's assumed that we'll be offering Justin our time in the third
quarter to help on the tax return, including doing a final walkthrough
of the return before it is sent in.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Committee

Since last report, a PRC area under the private foundation repo
was created to allow for PRC members to better track (via a STATUS
file) ongoing issues within the PMC. As with the list, all
ASF members have read access to this directory. A "private"
JIRA project is also being created as well.

The ASF Sponsorship program has its own page on the
ASF site (http://www.apache.org/foundation/sponsorship.html).
We will likely be requesting that sponsor.apache.org
be setup to redirect to that page. The current "Thanks"
page is being reworked to become the Sponsor Acknowledge
page.

Candidate Platinum sponsor logos are being voted on within
the PRC. The candidates can be found at:

    http://people.apache.org/~jim/sponsor-logos/

Once approved, it will serve as the "basis" for the other
logos.

As far as sponsors, we have, at this writing, 4 sponsors:

   Google:            Platinum
   HP:                Gold
   Covalent:          Silver
   Tetsuya Kitahata:  Bronze

We are currently in discussion with other potential sponsors.

Ted Leung is working with Michael Goulde, of Forrester
Research, on Michael's Open Source report on the ASF
with a specific focus on SOA projects and podlings.

On January 12, 2007, we received the official request from
Maven.org to use the ASF "Maven" mark. Of particular note in
this request is the "overlap" between the PRC and Infrastructure
on how to best proceed. This is due to the fact that currently
Maven.org is hosted at Contegix (via donation) and one potential
idea is to fold the Maven.org infrastructure into the ASF. There
are still issues to be resolved, since licensing is a major
consideration (the AL is not required at Maven.org). The feasibility
of whether or not major aspects of Maven.org can be moved to the
ASF will determine how this is resolved.

A couple of mark violations have been discovered, and the PRC
have contacted those entities. We anticipate no problems getting
these resolved.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

o Current Releases

Core
----
Ant 1.7 was released on December 19, 2006. 

Antlibs
-------
.NET Ant Library 1.0 released November 6, 2006
AntUnit 1.0 released on January 8, 2007

The Ant 1.7.0 release has gone quite smoothly and is a major milestone
achievement.

o Development Activities

There has been some discussion for the roadmap following Ant 1.7.0. We have
not created a branch for further Ant 1.7.x development. This is currently
occurring on trunk. A 1.7 branch will probably be created once  1.7
stabilises.

o Community

No issues


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

RELEASES / ONGOING WORK
- We released Cocoon 2.1.10, mostly bugfixing and some great work
  on using Dojo in Cocoon Forms.
- We released milestone artifacts from trunk:
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-core-modules:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-core:1.0.0-M2 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-blocks-modules:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-template:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-flowscript:1 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-template-impl:1.0.0-M2 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-flowscript-impl:1.0.0-M1 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-blocks-fw:1 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-blocks-fw-impl:1.0.0-M1 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-tools-modules:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-archetypes:2 (pom)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-22-archetype-block:1.0.0-M4 (jar)
    o org.apache.cocoon:cocoon-22-archetype-webapp:1.0.0-M1 (jar)
  For each jar artifact sources and javadocs were released too.
- After the 2.2.0-M2 release there was a lot of refactoring to split up
  the core into smaller pieces.
- There is some ongoing work on a new design of our website.
- In February we plan to have another, hopefully the last, series of
  milestone releases from trunk. In March we plan to get the first series
  of release candidates together with the new website out of the door.

COMMUNITY
- On the one hand caused by the upcoming Cocoon 2.2 we are experiencing an
  increasing interest by new developers. They get involved in discussions and
  provide patches. On the other hand many long-term committers became inactive
  or "only" watch the dev@c.a.o and or private@c.a.o lists. All in all our
  community is renewing itself. We consider this being a healthy process and
  nothing to worry about.
- new committers: no
- PMC changes: no

LEGAL
- Rhino was relicensed unter MPL. See
http://groups-beta.google.com/group/mozilla.dev.tech.js-engine/browse_thread/thread/012b1279e97d1f8a/76511e91e6263eca#dcb9a0e6ee1eaed1
  https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=236108
- Daisy registrations now require accepting the Apache Community Contribution
  Agreement (http://www.apache.org/licenses/proposed/community.txt)
  Though it's still a proposal it's better than that what we had before.
- We and the designer are aware that the contribution of a new design of our
  website has to be handled by an ICLA/CCLA.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Issues needing board attention
------------------------------
None

Changes in the PMC membership
-----------------------------
None

General status
--------------
Progress has been slow this quarter. Most devs seem busy with other stuff.

Steady activity on the user list. Committers and other developers are
assisting.

We became aware of a book soon to be published about Forrest. The author has
recently been participating on the dev list.

Issues still to be dealt with by the Forrest PMC
------------------------------------------------
Just the usual continue to develop project guidelines doc.

Progress of the project
-----------------------
Still not released the pending 0.8 version. However there has been progress
with discusions about how to package the product into separate sections rather
than as a monolith.

Forrest has a problem regarding our many packaged supporting products in the
lib/core directory. Work has commenced on a branch for converting our build
system to use Ivy dependency management.

A new Forrest plugin is in development for integrating output with an Apache
Lucene Solr search server. Such efforts might encourage new developers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache HiveMind Project

- The HiveMind team is actively working on the HiveMind 2.0 API.

- We're trying to migrate the HiveMind 1.x branch(es) over to use
Maven for releases since we've had requests from our users that the
jars in the maven2 repositories need a real POM with dependencies and
all.

- We've replaced the website with a maven-based one.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The Apache HTTP server project has coasted through much of the quarter
without any significant issues.  We have no board-level issues at this
time.

No new committers or PMC members have been added to the project,
nor have any of the existing members retired.

We released Apache httpd 2.2.4 in January.  The discussion of what
to do next in a 3.0ish version of the Apache server framework has
begun on the dev list and we have created a new sandbox area to
start playing with new ideas, goals, and requirements.  The first
code name for the sandbox is "amsterdam", mostly because I expect
the first set of ideas/implementations to be central to our
hallway discussions at ApacheCon Europe in May.  There will be
other sandboxes started, as needed, and some of the httpd
experimental branches will be moved to sandboxes.

The mod_python subproject released a beta 3.3.0b in December and a
GA release of 3.3.1 last week.  I introduced the topic of moving
mod_python to its own TLP, but did not garner enough votes to make
it happen this month.  There was a general preference among the
committers to ask for a Python TLP, as opposed to being specific
to mod_python, so that may be a topic of discussion for the next
board meeting if the group can figure out an applicable TLP name.

There were no releases of libapreq, flood, mod_smtpd, or any of
the smaller modules.

The mod_ftp team successfully graduated from the incubator and
have moved under our subversion tree and discussion moved to the
main dev list. All of the committers are already committers on httpd.

The mod_wombat module has been accepted for import as an IP-only
process so that the major contributors can continue work on it
within the Apache community.  Again, all of the contributors are
either httpd committers or ASF members.

Finally, on the legal side, I replaced the (IMO, way too complex)
RDF-based collection of export notice information with a single
Anakia-based XML page on the www site, and then used that data to
update the appropriate BIS notices for the HTTP Server project's
distributed products (aside from mod_ftp, which will have to be
an added notice when it is ready to be considered for product
release).  I am thinking of sending a reminder to the PMCs that
they must look at these export guidelines and produce their own
notices for any product that is designed for use of, or includes,
an encryption interface like SSL, JCE, etc.  Let me know if you
would prefer that such a note come from the board or VP Legal.
<http://www.apache.org/licenses/exports/>.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Things in Lenya land are kinda quiet lately, although the community
keeps chugging along on the code base. One thing were we have been
dropping the ball on have been maintenance releases, but we addressed
that this quarter: a vote for it just passed.

I am personally concerned about the long-term health of the project. A
few committers have either changed jobs or otherwise moved on, which has
reduced the ranks of active committers considerably. It remains to be
seen if we as a community can attract enough new blood to make up for
this decline. Definitely something for the next quarter to talk about on
the dev mailing list.

Work on the 1.4 code base continues, with a new RC imminent. The stable
1.2 branch receives the occasional fix, but no new development.

There are no new committers this quarter, and no isssues requiring board
attention at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

PMC membership:

Yoav Shapira resigned from the Logging Services PMC for personal
reasons.

Two active committers were nominated for PMC membership, however the
minimum required votes had not been cast after 5 days open.  Repeated
requests for any vote (-1, 0, +1) from the silent PMC members did not
produce additional votes.

Niall Daley and Christophe DeVienne should be removed from the list
of PMC members in committee-info.txt.  They had been added to the
list in committee-info.txt based on their presence in the logging-pmc
group in asf-authorization, but there was no record of their election
in the private or general archives, they were not subscribed to
private@logging.apache.org and Niall was unaware that he was
considered a PMC member.  There has not been any communication with
Christophe since 2005-05-16 despite requests for a response.

Michael Catanzarati and Marco Vassura have not communicated with the
project since 2004-11-04 and 2006-01-25 respectively and have not
responded to recent requests to update their status.  Per the Logging
Services bylaws (http://logging.apache.org/site/bylaws.html), they
would be considered "emeritus" PMC members and may request
reinstatement to the PMC.  Would appreciate the guidance of the board
on the appropriateness of the "emeritus" PMC status and how that
should be reflected in committee-info.txt.

Mark Womack has not communicated with the project since 2006-06-18,
though there was some private communication between Mark and I to fix
file permissions on people.apache.org on 2006-09-13.  No response to
recent requests for a status update.

Given the failure to reach the minimum number of votes on the new PMC
member nominations and the log4php termination vote (see below) and
the relatively few number of PMC members actively contributing to the
project, the PMC in its current form may be ineffective in managing
the development efforts of the project.  Board oversight or
appointment of additional PMC members may be necessary.

PMC actions:

The PMC voted to accept log4net into the Logging Service project
pending graduation from the incubator (vote concluded on
general@logging, 2007-02-13).  A vote is currently in progress on
general@incubator.

A vote was called to recommend termination of the log4php incubation
but the vote did not achieve quorum and concluded with 2 +1's and no
comments (vote concluded on general@logging, 2007-02-14).  As an
Incubator PMC member but not representing the Logging Services PMC, I
called a vote on general@incubator to terminate log4php which is
currently in progress.

The PMC voted to accept Elias Ross (eross@apache.org) as a committer
for the log4j subproject (vote concluded on general@logging, 2006-11-25)

There was an attempt to start discussions to simplify the project
bylaws on general@logging, however there did not appear to be
sufficient interest to continue at this time.  I proposed a Uniform
Project Policies effort to the Incubator PMC and if that succeeds,
then the Logging Services PMC could vote whether to replace the
current bylaws with that.

log4j:

log4j project voted to accept Elias Ross (eross@apache.org) as a
committer (vote concluded on log4j-dev@logging, 2006-11-20).

Between 2007-01-25 and 2007-01-29, Elias Ross went on a bug fixing
spree committing patches against 20 or so bugs against log4j trunk
(aka log4j 1.3).  While the intent seems to be good, there was no
discussion in advance of the spree and no discussion on any of the
changes.  The changes caused the unit tests to fail, broke the build
on JDK 1.3, and introduced incompatibilities with log4j 1.2.  Since
Elias had not subscribed to the log4j-dev mailing list with his
@apache.org email address, the SVN commit messages were blocked from
reaching the mailing list.  After realizing that things were going
wrong, I called for a voluntary lockdown on new commits and made
repeated requests for Elias to post the SVN commits to the mailing
list and to discuss his changes.  After getting no response, I spent
a day or so generating replacement commit messages to the log4j-dev
mailing list and reverted only the changes that broke the unit tests
and JDK 1.3 build and commenting on the other changes.  At the time
of this writing, there has been no communication from Elias and no
other apparent activity.  The Logging Service bylaws require a
unanimous vote of all active PMC members to revoke commit
privileges.  A vote to suspend commit privileges until communication
is reestablished is in progress but is unlikely to carry and would
fall fall short of the unanimous vote required for a permanent
revocation.

log4j development has been glacial and the barrier to entry for new
developers is high.  There have not been any commits from developers
other than Curt Arnold and Elias Ross (see above) since August 2006.
log4j 1.2 is mature and widely deployed, however extreme care must be
taken to maintain compatibility while address minor bugs and some
recurring issues (particularly involving concurrency) cannot be
addressed while maintaining compatibility.  There is no reasonable
expectation that log4j 1.3 will ever be sufficiently compatible with
log4j 1.2 to be released and but it is similar enough to log4j 1.2 to
share the same weaknesses.  The idea of a log4j 2.0 that would be
designed for JDK 1.5 and higher, follow current best code and
concurrency practices, would support most legacy log4j clients and
JDK 1.4 logging clients has been discussed, but no code has been
developed.   log4j 1.3 (in my opinion) is a development dead-end as
there is little motivation for development and competition from
LOGback from slf4j.org in the mostly-compatible with log4j 1.2
niche.  The log4j 2.0 concept does appear to meet a legitimate need,
but development can not proceed in earnest until an skeletal
framework has been established and there is no guarantee that
additional developers will be drawn to the project once the barriers
to entry are lowered.

The user list is still active and most questions get a timely response.


log4cxx:

A log4cxx 0.10 is still pending.  The log4j bug spree repair took
quite a bit of time that I had intended to work on release
preparation.  Curt Arnold and Andreas Fester committed code during
the quarter.  Source code was modified to conform to the Source
Header and Copyright policy. User list is active and most questions
get a timely response.

log4net:

log4net voted to be considered for graduation from the incubator.
Nicko Cadell, Ron Grabowski and Curt Arnold committed during the
quarter.  Source code was modified to conform to the Source Header
and Copyright Policy.  Development and user lists are active.  Things
seem to be going smoothly.

log4php:

No commits since 2006-01-25.  Minimal activity on the log4php-dev and
log4php-user list.  No communication with sole committer.  Requests
for status update on log4php-dev list did not prompt any response.
PMC vote to terminate incubation was cross-posted in log4php-user and
log4php-dev and did not prompt any response.  Logging Services PMC
vote to recommend termination did not achieve quorum.  Incubator PMC
vote to terminate incubation is in progress.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

Nothing much happening on that track.  No new mod_perl 1.x releases
since the last report.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

Recent releases:

  2.0.3 - November 28, 2006


--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

Recent releases:

  1.29 - November 28, 2006


--- Apache-SizeLimt --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.

no new Apache-SizeLimit releases since the last report


-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be an active and healthy development community -
bugs are found, bugs are fixed, development moves forward as usual.

we are in the process of absorbing the popular Apache::Reload module
into our project - Matt Sergeant (the current owner) would like us
to take over maintenance of the module, and the PMC has agreed.  we
will be working through the Incubator process soon and expect to have
the issue resolved before our next quarterly report.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.


-- PMC --

the PMC invited long-time developer Steven Hay to join the project
as a full committer.  quite oddly, he seemed to drop off the internet
after our invitation, with neither an accept or decline response.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project

Other than work on the actual libraries, a very quiet quarter.

Version 1.4 of the Java library xml security library has now been
released, incorporating the code for the JSR 105 API together with
some extensive work on optimising various types of transformations.

The C++ library released version 1.3.1 with an updated build system
and some minor bug fixes.

I will be looking to move the chair responsibilities to another person
over the coming quarter due to lack of time to be able to spend on the
project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

General Information

(As our esteemed chair Henning Schmiedehausen is on vacation this
month, this quarter's report is being prepared by Will Glass-Husain).

The Velocity project is inches away from the eagerly anticipated
release of Velocity 1.5, the first major release of our engine in
almost three years.  December and January saw a flurry of activity in
cleaning up last minute bugs, updating documentation, and preparing
the release.

We have had passionate recent discussion on the dev and private list
about release procedure.  In part, this is due to the anticipated
visibility of the Velocity 1.5 release and in part due to the
relatively young nature of the Velocity TLP / PMC as we establish
correct release practice.

For recent beta / rc releases we have had a "vote-then-build" process
in which a PMC member announces they are ready to release, a vote is
held, then the release is shipped.  In mid-January such a vote was
announced for Velocity 1.5.  Midway through the vote one of the PMC
members expressed concern that there were no binaries to examine.  A
consensus opinion urged a switch to a "build-then-vote" procedure and
the current vote was tabled.  A few days later, a second vote was held
to release Velocity 1.5 with +1's from almost all parties except for a
last-minute -1 (from a  different PMC member).  The concerns driving
the -1 vote were not serious (minor documentation / site issues), but
the -1 voter felt strongly that these issues should be addressed
before release.  (Being a release vote, the -1 was not binding but our
release manager agreed to table the release in light of the concerns).

A frustrating aspect of this process was that these issues could not
be directly fixed, but needed to wait for the vote to conclude, then a
rebuild of the distro then a new vote.  The departure of our chair
(who had been driving the release) on a month-long vacation has
temporarily paused this process.  Will Glass-Husain has offered to
push the release through to conclusion in the meantime but personal
committments have led to a several week delay.

In related news, we have prepared a press release for distribution
regarding the Velocity 1.5.  Due to the wide-spread use of this
library in the Java community we anticipate getting plenty of
attention when the release occurs.  The release was shared with the
PRC committee list (which was somewhat unresponsive) but suggestions
for improvements were received from several members.

The Velocity project has no board-level issues at this time.


Community Changes

No new committers were voted in since the last board report. No new
PMC members were voted in since the last board report.


Velocity Engine project

As noted above, the entire Velocity community is eagerly awaiting the
upcoming release of Velocity 1.5.  We fully expect this release to
conclude as previously predicted during Q1.


Velocity Tools project

Velocity Tools 1.3 was released on February 8.  Work on the next 1.x
version has already begun.


Velocity DVSL project

There were no changes in the DVSL code base. No DVSL development
happened in the last month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

Xalan-C
=======

Nothing new to report, just the usual bug fixing.

Xalan-J
=======

From a  code point of view the Xalan-J 2.7.1 release has been tested and is
ready.  The Apache 2.0 licenses are in the code now.

The 2.7.1 release, besides the usual bug fixes will also have upgrades to:
- Xerces-J 2.9.0
- xml-commons-external-1.3.04

However from a packaging point of view we are not quite ready. The new 
requirements on LICENSE and NOTICE files are being worked on.  There will 
be one of each, but in the past there was quite a number of each (e.g. 
one for Xalan, one for the included Xerces, one for BCEL ...). This also 
impacts various targets in the build.xml file since these targets build 
the distribution files with the NOTICE/LICENCE in them.  All in all the 
2.7.1 release just needs a little testing of the packaging and the 
approval of the PMC and it will be out.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J
========
In November we released Xerces-J 2.9.0. As of this release, Xerces and
Xalan now share a common serialization codebase. The DOM Level 3
serialization support which was in Xerces was migrated into the Xalan
serializer and Xerces' native serializer was deprecated. After 2.9.0,
things quieted down over the holiday season. A few bugs have been fixed
which should bring Xerces-J into conformance with the XML 1.0 4th Edition
Recommendation. Several users have requested that we put our jars in
Apache's Maven repository. Since none of the Xerces developers are
familiar with Maven or the repository we've asked for help from the
community and found one volunteer who is willing to create the POMs and
upload the jars.


Xerces-C
========
A wiki page has been set up to track the build status of Xerces-C on
various platform; currently, only AIX has never been successful. Within
the last week we have had what we hope to be the final drop of the beta of
XInclude support. We need to integrate this with the codebase. A limited
support for XPath querying has been added to the DOMDocument class,
exposing the same engine used for checking the XML Schema identity
constraints.

=== Xerces-P ===

There's been very little activity since November. Here's a bit of
slightly old news, some of which missed the previous report... Xerces-P
is now fully integrated as a sub-project of Xerces-C and as of the
upcoming Xerces-C 3.0 release it will be official. Xerces-P is now being
used by Xerces-C as the basis of a comprehensive regression test suite
for the public API of Xerces-C. Also in progress is the use of the SWIG
wrappers to create mappings for other languages such as C# and Ruby
(Xerces-C# and Xerces-Ruby), but this work is in early alpha.

XML Commons
===========
In November, we released xml-commons-external-1.3.04 (JAXP 1.3) and
xml-commons-resolver-1_2 (XML Catalogs v1.1). These were the first
official releases from XML Commons since 2003. In addition to fixing
several bugs, xml-commons-external-1.3.04 added Java Language Bindings for
SAC 1.3 (The Simple API for CSS), SMIL and SVG 1.1. These APIs were
originally housed in the XML Graphics project. The major change in
xml-commons-resolver-1_2 is the addition of support for OASIS XML Catalogs
v1.1. We still have one more pending release: xml-commons-external-1.2.06
(JAXP 1.2) which we hope to get out soon.


General
=======
I has been noted by Michael that this comment appeared in the board minutes:

"Justin asked if there was a license or s/w grant on file from Lucian
Holland. Jim noted that we have an iCLA on file for him, but not a grant
or CCLA." and "Sander: find out about s/w grant from Lucian Holland for
Xerces."

We don't understand why Lucian would require a software grant. Could you
expand further please?


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache XML Project

General business
================

Things are generally quiet and almost dormant on the XML PMC. No
activity to report: the Axkit->mod_perl and Xindice->DB migration has
not taken place, something I hope to be able to tackle in the upcoming
months. No other issues to report.

Axkit
=====

AxKit2 continues at a steady pace. Some bugs fixed this
period, though no releases made. Community activity is slowly
increasing again, which we're grateful for. No activity on AxKit1.

XIndice
=======

Xindice: There was some development activity attending bugzilla issues. Getting
closer to a release state. Little user activity.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

No project-level issues at the moment.

XML Graphics Commons

Version 1.1 has been released in preparation of the FOP 0.93 release:
http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/www-announce/200612.mbox/%3c458D835E.5010501@apache.org%3e

Batik is now preparing to switch over to use Commons right after the
next Batik release. This will finally allow to finish resolving the
circular dependencies between FOP and Batik. A PostScript DSC
parser/processor is going through IP clearance after a vote to accept it
as a new addition to Commons.

Batik

Batik is in the middle of release preparations. It'll be released as
soon as the remaining issues are resolved. It's good to see so much
progress with only 3 active committers.

The Rhino project (JavaScript implementation) has been relicensed under
the MPL 1.1 which allows us to continue to bundle Rhino with Batik.
Great news.

FOP

FOP has released its first production-grade version (0.93):
http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/www-announce/200701.mbox/%3c20070108210217.GA46429@minotaur.apache.org%3e

Traffic on user and dev mailing lists has increased after the release.
We're a little behind processing patches. Our available resources still
don't match FOP's user base. But over all, we keep making progress in
various areas.

One new committer: Jay Bryant (in acknowledgement of his helping out so
many people on the lists for some years now, awaiting his CLA) 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

Status

This board report was mainly constructed by other people than me,
which is a big improvement (thanks everyone). I also moved the board
report to a fixed location on the wiki
(http://wiki.apache.org/jakarta/JakartaBoardReport-current), so it's
easier to locate for people. The code grant for the not yet commons
SSL (formerly named commons-ssl), has been completed, so we can
progress to having a vote where SSL should end up on general and
based on that result take the correct incubator path (legal /
full incubation).

What is not completely clear for me at this point, is the board
report schedule. An extra report was requested (lack of commons
projects in the report). Reporting next month again will be a lot of
work, since my goal is to report on every subproject (even if there
is no or hardly any activity).

Inactive projects

Disclaimer : we have lot's of active projects !

Definition list :

Inactive project = a project that has no *developer* community.

The Apache Way :

To become committer on a project you have to earn that right, you
have to stand out, submit patches, show you care, learn the apache
way and have to get noticed by the current committers who can
nominate such a person.

Problem :

If that didn't happen enough in the past, it can happen that at a
certain point no developer community is active anymore.

Which causes :

A catch22 situation. Since there is no developer community, no one
is able to determine if people deserve to become a committer. Even if
you are monitoring such a list (such as I do for all Jakarta lists),
it is hard to determine if people deserve committership.

Solution :

The only thing we know for sure : inactive projects needs someone to
mentor the project to become active again. This goes for all possible
scenario's :

1. Actively support forks and when they show they are capable to work
  on the project, get the code back (needs mentoring, grants, etc)
2. More liberal in getting committers on board
3. Actively following the user / dev lists and issue trackers to see
  if there is someone ready for committer ship. (is the normal way,
  although the focus here is not if patches etc are technically
  correct)

I like to prevent Jakarta becoming some kind of collection with
inactive project, so the first goal is preventing that this scenario
occurs on our current subprojects where possible. So I would like to
ask the current active developers to invest a little bit more time in
looking what others are doing.

I think this discussion is also useful to have on the incubator list.
Releases

   * 13 February 2007 Commons Lang 2.3
   * 13 February 2007 Commons IO 1.3.1
   * 30 January 2007 Commons IO 1.3
   * 30 December 2006 Commons Betwixt 0.8
   * 30 December 2006 Commons VFS 1.0
   * 19 December 2006 Commons SCXML 0.6

Community changes

New committers, pmc persons, asf members and departures.

PMC Members

   * Yoav Shapira resigned from the PMC

The following new commiters were voted in:

   * Yegor Kozlov (POI)
   * Luc Maisonobe (Commons Math)
   * Matt Benson (Commons JXPath)

Infrastructure news

Started to investigate the moderators we have and contacting all the
moderators asking if they are still active. If there are gaps, I will
try to fill the void by finding volunteers. This way we prevent that
lists aren't moderated.

Subproject news

Sections with a prefix of MvdB are notes added by the chair

BCEL

MvdB :

Some user questions, further no action taken on the future of BCEL
(on the list is contacting the 2 currently exising forks out there,
to see if there is interenst in moving development back to Jakarta.
Afaik Findbugs and AspectJ have forks.

BSF

MvdB :

They are currently planning for a 3.0 release and for jsr223 they
are investigating to get the TCK. Geir is in the process of
arranging things.

Cactus

MvdB :

Cactus development was stalled and recently Petar Tahchiev sent a
mail to the list, saying he had continued development of cactus on
https://mamouth.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/mamouth. I
(=Martin van den Bemt) am currently in the process of informing
Petar on what actions to take (eg Code Grants/CLA/CCLA) to move
development back to the cactus project. When the paperwork is there,
we will run the code base through the incubator (at a minimum legal).


Commons

Switching from Maven-1 to Maven-2 gets closer - we can now build the
website from Maven-2. Next we need to look at how we would do a
release under Maven-2 and whether it passes our requirements.

Key:

* Inactive - No activity, no one watching it. Candidate for dormancy.
* Maintenance - No activity, someone watching it.

There are thirty-two components in the Commons 'Proper', that is the
released components.

Attributes

Inactive - however the last release had an issue so a new release
ideally needs to be done.

BeanUtils

Maintenance. A 1.8.0 release is slowly being worked on. Struts were a
major user, however they've moved on to using OGNL in their new version,
so the drive for a BeanUtils release is much lower than it has been
previously.

Betwixt

Just had a 0.8 release and currently actively maintained.

Chain

Maintenance. Used by a few projects (including Shale) and libraries,
but not widespread. Limited in scope due to awkard support for
conditional processing, so not likely to be aggressively enhanced.

CLI

Inactive. A 2.x version was close to release many years ago but then
the interested committers stopped committing. The 1.x version had
reached the end of its shelf-life, and though there are users of the
2.x version no one has shown interest in releasing it.

Codec

Maintenance. A few enhancements in JIRA, but nothing major to work
on.

Collections

Maintenance. Some work started on a JDK 1.5 version in the sandbox
a few months back.

Configuration

Active.

Daemon

Active.

DBCP

Active. A 1.2.2 release is coming soon.

DbUtils

Maintenance. A 1.1 release was made, and there really aren't that
many interesting issues to work on for a 1.2 release.

Digester

Maintenance. There are no bugs in JIRA, and no significant
enhancement requests; everyone seems content with the current
release.

Discovery

Inactive. A 0.4 release was made, and nothing new is planned.

EL

Inactive. Its main use was in Tomcat, and it's not used in their
latest Tomcat 6.

Email

Activity has restarted here and there may be a 1.1 release if it
continues.

FileUpload

Active. A 1.2 release is in the works now that IO 1.3 is released.

IO

Active. A 1.3 release has been made. Mostly this was a case of adding
new functionality (some from the Sandbox Finder component) and fixing
some bugs. There was a screwup (method wasn't static as desired) so a
1.3.1 has also been released. There's no activity on a 1.4 yet, but
I'm sure there will be.

Jelly

Not much activity - still in widespread use due to Maven-1, but this
is fading. Another notable user is JIRA who use it as their scripting
language.

Jexl

Jexl gets a little bit of development here and there and has been
reasonably stable recently. We keep threatening to start Jexl 2.

JXPath

Version 1.2 has been the "current" release of this library for over
two years, which is testament to the overall stability of the code.
There have been a number of issues closed since 1.2 was released,
however, so a 1.3 release seems to be in the near future. After this
it will probably be appropriate to categorize JXPath as being in
maintenance mode: a new committer (Matt Benson) has stepped up to act as
its curator.

Lang

Lang 2.3 has been released this month. Active development is expected
to continue.

Launcher

Inactive (2 years since a notable commit). A user did recently ask if
he could help, but it's likely this is destined for dormancy.

Logging

The Maven 2.x files for the 1.1 release were incorrect and a few bugs
have been fixed so a 1.1.1 release needs to be made. No one has
volunteered to be the release manager yet though.

Math

Active.

Modeler

Maintenance. Dims organized a release back in July, since then one
issue has been fixed.

Net

Actively working on a 2.0 release.

Pool

Following a bugfix release, a rethink things a bit 2.0 release is in
the medium term planning.

Primitives

Inactive.

SCXML

On 19th of December version 0.6 of Commons SCXML was released. This
version included notable improvements towards processing of XML
namespaces in SCXML documents, custom Commons SCXML actions for
defining domain-specific vocabularies and Java serializability of the
model and executor instances. Commons SCXML is now also used to drive
an implementation of Shale dialogs (starting version 1.0.4 of the
Shale framework).

Transaction

Some activity - slowly preparing for a 1.2 release.

Validator

Active.

VFS

VFS had its first release (version 1.0) at the end of 2006!

Dormant

There are thirty-eight unreleased components in here. Nothing has
threatened to leave this status.

Sandbox

There are twelve components in here that are valid for dormancy
(finder + i18n spring to mind). Nothing in the sandbox currently
looks like it's close to moving to proper.

ECS

There was an email in 2006 (one thread all year) offering to start up
ECS2, but nothing after that. Inactive and ready for dormancy.

HttpComponents

   * including Commons HttpClient

HttpClient 3.1 RC1 is being prepared. HttpCore-NIO 4.0 alpha has
been selected as the new transport layer for Synapse. Work on
HttpClient 4.0 alpha continues, but has been delayed as the focus is
 now on HttpCore-NIO.

JCS

MvdB :

JIRA notifications are send to the list now. Not much development
happening currently.

JMeter

MvdB :

Active as always. The concern about the lack of committers for JMeter
in my last report is lifted by the fact that other people are still
involved, although don't currently have any cycles to spare.

ORO

Apart from the occasional regexp question, the ORO is inactive and
ready for dormancy.

POI

MvdB :

Added Mark Thomas to the POI Committer list. Actively working on a
release, which is planned for the beginning of March. After that
release next steps will be taken in a move to TLP. All headers,
notices are up-to-date and the build process have been updated to
accomodate a correct release.

Regexp

Apart from the occasional bug report, the Regexp is in deep
maintenance.

Slide

MvdB :

Activity is picking up and a potential other committer candidate was
introduced, which means more patches and more activity. I am also
currently investigating if I can use Slide for my self, so who
knows I will actually do some programming for Apache in the future :)

Taglibs

A 1.1.3 release of the Jakarta Standard Taglib is being worked on.
The RDC taglig has activity - however apart from that all of the
taglibs should be considered Inactive and available for dormancy.

Turbine

The development in the trunk is slowly being revived. Active work
is done in some of the Fulcrum components (security).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project

Issues requiring the Board's attention: none.

Infrastructure
--------------
We have no outstanding infrastructure issues.  We added a new 
mailing list for build alerts from the community-run build system.

Development
-----------

BEA released a version of the JRockit virtual machine (not open 
source) that works with the the Harmony class library.  This is a 
production-grade, high-performance JVM.  Not only is this a very 
useful tool for the project as we can use it to help isolate class 
library bugs because the JVM is "known good", it's also a good 
demonstration of the adaptability of the Harmony class library.

Along with the continuous work across all aspects of the codebase, 
the project accepted several new donations of code.  These were 
voted by the project on the dev list and have been incorporated 
into the project codebase, or are in progress :

1) "java.lang.management" package from IBM for the classlibrary
2) JSSE test suite from Intel
3) Reliability test suite from Intel
4) HTML parser for Swing from ITC
5) "javax.naming.ldap" package from ITC

Security
--------
There were no reported security issues.

Community
---------
We're still watching the OpenJDK project for opportunities to 
collaborate, but so far, there has been little activity there 
since our last update.

We have voted in one new committer :

  Xiao-Feng Li

We have added 7 committers to the PMC :

  Alexei Zakharov
  Alexey Varlamov
  Gregory Shimansky
  Alexey Petrenko
  Richard Liang
  Oliver Deakin
  Nadya Morozova


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

In short, nothing much has changed: the projects have not been
abandoned (and are definitely maintained), but nothing much new is
happening with them.

I was happy to see some honest and open discussion on the Rivet list:

http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/tcl-rivet-dev/200701.mbox/browser

Not so happily, none of the people that wants action is doing much.

Speaking purely on behalf of myself, I think the best sort of solution
would be some sort of "halfway mothballing".  Completely closing the
projects will lead to their reopening elsewhere simply to ensure that
interested parties can work with them in the future.  It's also a bit
drastic considering they are maintained.  Suggestions are welcome.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

Not much activity lately. A few new labs were added, but nothing that
requires specific board attention.

It is worth mentioning, though, that while it is pretty silly to
forecast the evolution of a new project by its first few months
(especially one that diverges from our established and well known
dynamics), it is not unforeseeable that the number of apache labs might
continue and their activity will be distributed according to a power
law, meaning that very few labs will attract attention and grow in
traffic/energy, while a large tail will maintain a rare and occasional
bust of activity, mostly from their respective PIs.

And since we are designed to turn those few, high energy labs into
incubated projects, labs is probably destined to have a high number of
low-energy efforts going.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Apache MINA is a Java network application framework, which enables rapid
development of high-performance and high-quality network applications.

TLP Promotion
=============
All infra changes required for TLP promotion has been finished thanks to
Henri Yandell's help. One last thing is to add a link to mina.apache.org
in www.apache.org, but we didn't add the link by our will because we feel
that we need to finish our work on documentation before getting listed
there. We have great community, but we don't want the community
overloaded by overwhelming traffic due to bad documentation.

Releases
========
There was no releases in this period. We are very close to 1.0.2 though.
11 issues have been fixed.

Community News
==============
Julien Vermillard is adding serial and parallel port communication feature
to MINA using RXTX library ( http://www.rxtx.org/). It's progrssing
slowly, but once done, we will be able to support more transports which is
based on blocking I/O.

Mike Heath is working on asynchronous I/O API with JNI. It's working with
file for now, but the goal of this subproject is to provide AIO API and
its implementation and to plug it into MINA.

Issues
======
Mike Heath has announced a release of AIOJ snapshot without firing any
vote. PMC has noticed it quickly and corrected his announcement. He said
it was not his intention to announce something officially and it was just
a mistake. We agreed that it's a mistake and decided to find better road
map to release AIOJ, which is immature yet.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

This report, for February 2007, is the second monthly report for
OFBiz (Open For Business) as a top level project.

The Open For Business Project (Apache OFBiz) is an open source
enterprise automation software project. By enterprise automation we
mean: ERP, CRM, E-Business / E-Commerce, MRP, SCM, CMMS/EAM, and so on.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

Exiting from Incubator, Infrastructure Tasks:
- all infrastructure tasks for the incubator exit have now been
  completed
- the main task remaining since the January report was the mailing
  list archives, and the web pages about them, which have now been updated

Community:
- one new committer (Scott Gray, lektran at gmail.com) was voted in
  just before the January report, and now has SVN commit access, Jira
  access, and so on setup
- two new committers (Tim Ruppert and Ray Barlow) have now been voted
  in and we are in process getting CLAs and then the various resources
  setup for them
- a Developers Conference (a hackathon of sorts) is now planned for
  the week of 5-9 Mar 2007; this is not an "official" conference, but
  an event hosted by a company that uses OFBiz to help get developers
  together to push forward certain objectives of the project; there
  will be an estimated 15 people attending, including at least 4
  committers (3 of whom are on the PMC)
- there is a great deal of community interaction on the mailing lists
  and issue tracker as the community grows and we are working on
  getting more people involved on a regular basis with access to the
  necessary resources to help leverage this increase of involvement

Project:
- we are now planning a release branch and beta release for late March


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project

SUMMARY

We finished the infrastructure migration and launched the new site at:

   http://cayenne.apache.org/

It is worth noting that this site is generated completely from Confluence
and shows that it is possible to create more 'polished' sites than is often
attempted from this wiki. Some of the techniques might be useful to other
projects.

COMMUNITY

Cayenne community is healthy as before.

New PMC Members: NONE
New Committers: Aristedes Maniatis (in recognizing his contribution leading
site redesign process).

PROJECT STATUS

    * Launched the new site at http://cayenne.apache.org/.
    * Lots of work being done on 3.0 release.
    * Discussions are being held on publicity strategies. Page has been
      created in wikipedia.
    * DOAP file submitted to projects.apache.org

PROBLEMS

    * Still waiting to get access to the JPA TCK. NDA for Andrus Adamchik
      is confirmed to be on file, but the TCK access hasn't been granted.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

The Tiles project infrastructure components are all set up and running
smoothly. The website has been migrated over from the Struts project and
work is ongoing to make it a better representation of our project.
Interest in the revolutionized Tiles API continues to grow among users of
the frameworks it interfaces with.

Development Activity
================

We created separate project modules for framework, showcase, and shared
(maven, website) components. These are separate modules with different
dependency structures and purposes. Since the project has not made an
actual release to date there is a lot of confusion around which version of
Tiles other frameworks should use. Most of the questions we see about
integrating with Tiles relate to problems of mismatched nightly build
versions. Because of this, it is our highest priority to get a release
out that people can build dependencies on. We rolled a 2.0.0 build, but
it was not released due to packaging problems and missing license
headers. The issues are currently being fixed and a 2.0.1 build should be
coming soon.

Community
=========

We have added two new PMC members from the Struts PMC: Martin Cooper and
Joe Germuska. Since they were part of the Struts PMC and, thus were able
to make binding decisions about Tiles before it moved to a TLP, we decided
to invite them to join our PMC.

There are currently no issues that need the board's attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

* Apache ActiveMQ graduated from the Incubator to a top level project
in January.

* The website, mailing lists, and subversion have all been moved to
their new homes. Thank you very much to Joe Schaefer and Henri
Yandell for their help with movig resources around!

* We released version 1.1 of the ActiveMQ C++ client (ActiveMQ-CPP)
in February. This release included API improvements and several
important bugfixes.

* We moved the ActiveMQ wiki onto ASF infrastructure.

* Both the user and developer community continue to be very active.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Releases
========

No releases since the last board report.  Getting ready though for an
ApacheDS 1.0.1 (stable branch) and a 1.5.0 (feature branch+jdk jump)
release.  Our budding new LDAP Studio project also plans a release (0.6)
in a short while as soon as we can get RAT to give us a clean bill of
health.


Code Donations
==============

CA still tried to push the JXPlorer donation however the PMC clearly
stated their position on the JXPlorer code base which comes without a
community.  We will not be sponsoring an incubator proposal for
JXPlorer, the community would prefer to build a UI from scratch instead.


Community
=========

Last month we had an unfortunate situation where an individual, Enrique
Rodriguez (erodriguez@apache.org), was indefinitely suspended from the
Directory PMC.

Enrique has been warned several times both off and on the Directory
mailing lists about code dumping.  He has without discussion introduced
major new features into the server.  Without the consent or knowledge of
others in the community we urged him to cease adding unsupportable code.
 There were several references to a "One Man Show" situation over the
course of months [0] which he publicly admitted to.  The PMC urged
Enrique to start building some community around the code he already
added to Apache Directory Server before attempting to add new
functionality especially without consulting others.  The bare minimum we
asked was simple internal/external documentation and test cases on the
features he authored so others could feel comfortable navigating and bug
fixing the code to support users.  None of our requests were met.

Several PMC members saw the warning signs and people jumped in to try to
get involved with the new services introduced by Enrique.  ersiner@ and
akarasulu@ tried to get into the code to support it.  When we started
committing code and patches Enrique had a knee jerk reaction towards
anyone touching "his" code.  This was unacceptable and hurt the feelings
of those in our community.

Enrique soon thereafter disappeared for a while (which is OK).  However
he left us with code we could barely support (which is not OK) after we
asked him to document his existing work.  Several of us just dealt with
the situation the best we could.

Recently Enrique popped back onto the mailing list asking for us to
support his submissions to ApacheCon EU.  Enrique intended to introduce
new functionality into the server to support the claims of one of his
presentations (AD1854) [1].  This was completely unacceptable to us.
Several PMC members spoke out about the presentation yet Enrique ignored
our concerns.  Meanwhile a few PMC members and I began conversing about
possible ways to handle this situation.

With the gravity of Enrique's actions, the recent attempt to add an STS
service to ApacheDS for an ApacheCon presentation, combined with his
lack of a response to our concerns warranted, at a bare minimum, a
suspension from the PMC.  We were also worried that his ability to veto
others trying to get involved with the code he authored might be enough
to prevent any gelling of community around these features.  Regardless
no one had a clear idea as to how to proceed.

Enrique then posted a message [2] to private@ which spoke about a recent
Hiatus.  Myself and others (trustin, ersiner, and elecharny) felt this
was an attempt to avoid genuinely responding to our concerns to [1].  So
we confronted him with a WARNING to respond to our concerns to [1] with
[3].  Instead of a direct engagement there were mere excuses for his
behavior.  Contrary to the presentation abstract for (AD1854) which
clearly enables ApacheDS as an STS service, Enrique later stated that
ApacheDS was only intended to serve as a backing store for the service
instead.  This might work with people unfamiliar with the
technology/terminology but it was apparent to us that this was mere back
peddling.  The abstract for AD1854 was very clear about the nature of
the facility to be present and available within ApacheDS.

After this correspondence I quickly consulted a number of PMC members to
see if they felt corrective action along the lines of a PMC suspension
was in order.  A postmortem log of these conversations were posted to
the PMC mailing list with the thread starting with message [4].

Immediately after collecting consensus I acted without a formal vote,
however with definite PMC approval, to remove Enrique from the PMC: see
[5] on Directory's private@ list.

Overall the action applied quickly and resulted in very little commotion
or collateral damage to the community.  A couple PMC members were a bit
worried about loosing Enrique however this action has lead to positive
results WRT to his community interaction and attempt to start complying
with our original requests.  Several recent commits show Enrique
replacing @author tags, adding javadocs and test cases.  He has started
to engage users interested in the code he's written and has started to
apply patches submitted by users instead of introducing new functionality.

Overall I think the PMC feels the actions taken in [5] were successful
in at least getting us on the right path to reaching our aims with the
least bit of damage.

I hope this was sufficient to inform the board of the recent events at
Apache Directory.


New Committers and PMC Members
==============================

No new committers.  One new PMC member was just recently added although
not yet ACK'nowledged by the board: Pierre-Arnaud Marcelot (a.k.a. PAM).


Other
=====

On a cheerful note we recently revamped our website which is driven off
of auto-exported pages from confluence.  The site is still under
construction yet is looking pretty slick:

       http://directory.apache.org

Please feel free to give us more feedback.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Summary
--------------
The Incubator continues along, with much project activity:
- mod_ftp graduated into the httpd project,
- log4net graduated into the Logging Services project,
- AltRMI, log4php, and TSIK exited Incubation into dormant status.
- The initial IP clearance for mod_wombat has been approved.
- Several other projects issued successful releases, and there seems
  to be increasing smoothness around the release verification and voting
  process.
- Roy Fielding resigned from the Incubator PMC.
- Niclas Hedhman joined the Incubator PMC (PMC chair still to request
  ACK from board@)

One new project entered incubation: TripleSoup, a SPARQL endpoint for
httpd.  The project proposal is available at
  http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/TripleSoupProposal and its proposal
acceptance vote at
  http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=incubator-general&m=117069564625278&w=2

Work continues on clarifying and improving Incubator documentation,
especially in the areas of IP clearance and related procedures.
There's a discussion around cleaning up the "bylaws" language in TLP
proposals in favor of "guidelines" or a similar term.  The start of
that thread is at
  http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=incubator-general&m=117130831724125&w=2

Issues / Comments from last month's Board meeting:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Quotes are from previous Board meeting minutes, January 2007).
"A question to  be discussed later is what is the operational
difference between dormant and retired."
iPMC: No progress to report.

"The board clearly agreed that the Heraldry podling does not sound
healthy or "good"."
iPMC: Heraldry appears to be heading out of the Incubator into their
own project / foundation around OpenID, but mutual consent of all
parties involved.

"Jim noted his concern about Graffito and the apparent lack of any
activity combined with it's length of term within incubation."
iPMC: Graffito followup report is below.  The project appears to be
moving forward, albeit slowly.

February 2007 Podling Reports
--------------------------------------------
(Copied from wiki page at http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/February2007)

== AltRMI ==

AltRMI was retired in January.

----

== Abdera ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, dims, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

Abdera is an implementation of the Atom Publishing Protocol and Atom
Syndication Format.

Items to complete before graduation:

* Continue to expand the community
* Handle any legal issues related to crypto code

Community:

* Currently undergoing a release vote on general@incubator
* Starting to see the Abdera code used in a variety of notable applications

Code:

* A number of minor bug fixes (see README in proposed release zip files for
  details)
* Work has been done on using ivy for our ant based build, but has not yet
  been completed
* Plans have been made to extract the IRI code so that it can be used
  outside of Abdera

iPMC questions / comments:
* yoavs: It'd be nice to know which notable applications are using
  Abdera, or have a linked to a "Powered By Abdera" page
* rooneg: The ones that were mentioned were Joost (on the back end)
  and some Lotus applications from IBM.
* noel: "legal questions related to crypto" and "release vote" seem
  at odds.  What issues are believed to exist?
* rooneg: This has been resolved now.  It was just the crypto
  notification stuff because we use bouncy castle.

----

== Graffito ==

iPMC Reviewers: jerenkrantz, yoavs, twl, noel

(This is the extra followup report requested by the board last month.)

Graffito is a framework for content-based applications, especially in
portlet environments. Graffito entered incubation on September 20, 2004.

The recent discussion on the status of the Graffito project has concluded
with some concrete action items (see
http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-graffito-dev/200702.mbox/
%3c3b728ee90702140445i5d21bd22j95fb5b67c58abc70@mail.gmail.com%3e). The plan
is to realign Graffito to be more a content management framework instead of
a complete CMS product and to better leverage the features of JCR content
repositories.

The effect of these plans on commit activity remains to be seen, but as of
now the general feeling around the project is positive. Hopefully we'll have
some concrete results to show by the time of the next report.

----


== Ivy ==

iPMC Reviewers: jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

Ivy is a dependencies management tool mostly used in combination with Apache
Ant.

Incubating since: 2006-10-23

Items to resolve before graduation

* to be detailed

Status:

XH: update on 02/15, hope it isn't too late:
Since the last report, the svn repository has been imported to Apache
Incubator from its previous location.
The JIRA issues have been imported too, the web site has been migrated to
http://incubator.apache.org/ivy/.
Ivy is now built by gump, but there are still problems with some tests
failure in gump environment which should be resolved soon.

People get familiar with the mailing lists, we see more and more people
interested both on the ivy-user and ivy-dev mailing lists.
Development is proceeding. The package names have been changed to
org.apache.ivy from fr.jayasoft.ivy, and a refactoring to help new
developers better understand the source code is currently under development.


Plans:

* to be detailed

iPMC questions / comments:
* JE: Please follow the report template next time.
* noel: "to be detailed" should *be* detailed.  Are you saying that the
  project doesn't know what to say?

----

== Lokahi ==

iPMC Reviewers:

Missing Report, pinged 2/9, 2/14

iPMC questions / comments:
* jukka: The mailing list are silent and there are no recent commits. Is
  all hope lost?
* wrowe: I have pinged; the last bundle works quite well, but there was
  integration (already started) for much more commonly available OSS DB
  backends.  The last effort on this activity was 1/5.  Will apprise as I
  learn more.  There was activity since their November Report, I'm not
  terribly worried.  (yet).
* wrowe: One thing that the podling is ready for are some participants from
  other framework and infrastructure projects who want their services
  better-integrated to step forward to help :)  A post to community w.r.t.
  suggestion might be useful.

----

== mod_ftp (final i.a.o report) ==

iPMC Reviewers:

The Apache HTTPD mod_ftp Project is a protocol module for Apache 2.x which
implements
RFCs: 959, 1123, 2228, 238, regarding the FTP specifications

Entered incubation: 2005-08-06;  Exited incubation for httpd TLP: 2007-02-15

The mod_ftp podling, httpd TLP and incubator PMC have voted to graduate
mod_ftp to httpd's
domain as its subproject:

mod_ftp@i.a.o podling Vote Thread
Message-ID: <459F6F02.5050104@rowe-clan.net>

mod_ftp-dev@i.a.o podling Vote Summary
Message-Id: <AEA0F064-1BAB-4A1E-B4E5-B65E9011DE8E@jaguNET.com>

> 4 binding +1 votes (and 1 nonbinding +1) by mod_ftp to exit the
> incubator as an httpd sub-project.


dev@HTTPD.a.o Vote Thread
Message-Id: <A168EDCE-77F8-4865-8485-7DFEB630A283@jaguNET.com>

dev@HTTPD.a.o Vote Summary
Message-Id: <1583C015-C162-41A7-83EC-08DEE3EC3194@jaguNET.com>

> +1  Justin Erenkrantz
>     Jim Jagielski
>     Ruediger Pluem
>     Will Rowe
>     Sander Temme
>     Nick Kew (recorded late)
> -1  None
>
> The consensus is that:
>
>   1. mod_ftp be a httpd sub-project (ala mod_box)
>   2. mod_ftp will use the httpd lists (dev, user, etc...)
>      and not have separate lists


Incubator (general@i.a.o) Vote Thread
Message-ID: <45CF3A1E.9010409@rowe-clan.net>

Incubator (general@i.a.o) Vote Summary
Message-ID: <45D53A8D.1070605@rowe-clan.net>

Final tally;

+1; wrowe, yoavs, rdonkin, jerenkrantz, bdelacretaz, jim, leosimons
-1; none


In light of this; I declare the vote passed by all three committees,
and will begin the transfer of mod_ftp assets into the httpd project
per their consensus and further discussion to come, and [xxx] submit
this as the final mod_ftp subproject report under the incubator's
umbrella.

----

== NMaven ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

NMaven develops plugins and integration for Maven to make building and using
.NET languages a first-class citizen in Maven.

Incubating since: 2006-11-17

Items to resolve before graduation
* More active committer involvement (so far good discussions on mailing
lists)
* Engage other ASF projects (Lucene.NET, log4net) to see if NMaven can meet
any of their needs.
* Create WIKI

Status:
* Web site up - improved documentation
* JIRA issue tracker setup
* More community involvement: mailing-list, bugs, patches, etc

Plans:
* Work on a .NET integration test component
* Work on a release plugin
* Release a snapshot into the incubator repo

iPMC questions / comments:
* yoavs: What does "More community involvement: mailing-list, bugs,
  patches, etc" mean?

----

== Qpid ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, jerenkrantz, yoavs, twl, noel

The Apache Qpid Project provides an open and interoperable, multiple
language implementations of the Advanced Messaged Queuing Protocol
(AMQP) specification

Date of entry to the Incubator : 2006-09

Top three items to resolve before graduation
1. Defining a policy for adding new committers
2. Understanding the details between JCP and announce compliance
3. Making sure we are comfortable with the working relationship between
   Qpid and the AMQP Working Group.

Our STATUS file needs to be updated wrt this report and the addition of our
new committers.

* Any legal, cross-project or personal issues that still need to be
addressed?

The whole project has not gone through release review and the license files
and notices need to be checked for all languages and components.

* Latest developments.

* Since entering into incubation we have had one release of the java code
  base (M1).
* We have migrated our build system from ant to maven.
* Development has been moving forward. with improvements in memory
  footprint management passing the JMS TCK in with the java broker.
* Addition of .NET client
* Contributions from 5+ non committers
* Successfully voted to give 3 new committers access rights
* Successfully voted to give a new member contributor rights to cwiki.
* The creation of the first draft of Web site
* General progress on all models in the code base

* Plans and expectations for the next period?

During the next period we plan on improving the stability of all language
variants. Working towards a standard interoperability test suite and
improved test code coverage of the whole code base. To this end we would
like to get all the languages passing each others tests. We will also be
pushing forward official JMS compliance certification for both brokers.
Would like to create a release of the full code set.

iPMC questions / comments:
* Brett: is it 'has now gone through release review', or 'has not' as
  stated? How was M1 released if license files and notices have not been
  checked, or has that only been done for Java?
* Response by Martin(Qpid PPMC): The M1 release only included the Java code
  base as a result only the license/notice files for Java were checked. The
  other language variants are being checked to ensure the correct files are in
  place for when they are ready to release.

* noel: Can you elaborate on Top Item #1, in light of having elected new
  Committers?
       Are the new Committers listed in the STATUS file?  The STATUS files
       does not show any record of the decisions.

----

== ServiceMix ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, dims, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

ServiceMix is an Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) built on Java Business
Integration (JBI, aka JSR 208).

Since our last report, ServiceMix has voted in one new committer, Eric
Dofonsou, but his account has not been created yet as his CLA has not been
recorded yet.
The user community is very active and we have lots of contributors
submitting patches which is a good sign that the developer community will
continue to grow with a good heterogeneity.

The 3.1 released has just been voted by the incubator PMC and has been
officially released on Feb. 12.  This release is an important release and
includes lots of new features, improvements and bug fixes. Roadmap for next
releases has not been discussed yet.

The confluence WIKI which is used for the main site was previously hosted at
goopen.org.  It has been moved to the ASF so that all the resources are now
hosted at the ASF.

iPMC questions / comments:
* JE: Mentors should inform Eric regarding email transmission of CLAs
  instead of faxes.
* jukka: Sounds good, any missing steps before graduation?

----

== stdcxx ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

Stdcxx status report for the calendar quarter ending in February 2007.

__Project Summary__:

Stdcxx is a highly portable implementation of the C++ Standard Library
conforming to the ISO/IEC 14882 international standard for C++.

In incubation since 5/19/2005.

__Issues to resolve before graduation__:

* Increase committer base and diversity.
* Invite all committers to join the PPMC.

__Community__:

The project  has 11 committers  (excluding mentors).  Of these  6 have
been (or  were at some point)  active. The diversity  of the committer
community is 54%. The stdcxx  PPMC consists of 4 committers (excluding
mentors).  (These  numbers are  the same  as at the  time of  the last
report.)

Recently, the  stdcxx PPMC has  voted to invite the  committers Andrew
Black and  Farid Zaripov to  join the PPMC.  With the approval  of the
Incubator PMC they will be invited to join in the next few days.

__Activity__:

The stdcxx-dev list has 50  subscribers (down from 52 last report) and
averages  4.47 post per  day since  inception (down  from 4.79).   The
stdcxx-user list has 31 subscribers (down from 33) with a mean of 0.34
posts  per day  since  inception (unchanged  since  last report).  The
stdcxx-commits list has 15 subscribers (unchanged), and 1.94 posts per
day (down from 2.09). There are  338 issues in the stdcxx bug tracking
database (up from  301). Of these 137 are closed  or resolved (up from
120).

Since the  last report the team  has been busy  fixing bugs, enhancing
the test suite,  and work has begun on the  implementation of the type
traits facility.  An infrastructure  to publish nightly build and test
results has been put in place:
http://people.apache.org/~sebor/stdcxx/results/

__Code__:

The most  recent release  of stdcxx, version  4.1.3, was  published in
January 2006. The next  release, tentatively numbered 4.2, is expected
to be  published in  summer of  2007. All code  is licensed  under the
Apache license version 2.

iPMC questions / comments:
* Brett: what is the target for committer base & diversity?

----

== Tuscany ==

iPMC Reviewers: dims, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

Tuscany provides infrastructure for developing service-oriented applications
based on the OSOA specifications for Service Component Architecture (SCA)
and Service Data Objects (SDO).

Since our last report Tuscany has voted in one new committer, Simon Laws,
but community diversity remains an issue with most contributors working for
a single company.

The Incubator PMC approved the M2 release of the Java SCA, SDO and DAS
components and development continues apace. There is some significant
restructuring and modularization the Tuscany Java code base underway,
particularly related to SCA, the goal being to simplify the Tuscany build
and release process and provide support for an upcoming version of the SCA
specification. This instability is causing some tension in the community but
is being worked through on the lists.

For its next M3 release the Tuscany C++ runtime is being renamed to Tuscany
Native to reflect its support for various other language platforms such as
PHP, Ruby and Python.

The ability to participate in the OSOA collaboration has been demonstrated
with a project member who is not an employee of one of the vendors being
able to contribute to the process.

iPMC questions / comments:
* JE: OSOA?
     ant: OSOA is the collaboration group where the SCA specs are
     currently being developed, see: http://www.osoa.org
* noel: Are there any specific steps being taken to improve diversity?

----

== Woden ==

iPMC Reviewers: dims, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl

Woden is a Java class library for reading, validating, manipulating,
creating and writing WSDL documents, initially to support WSDL 2.0 and with
the longer term aim of supporting past, present and future versions of WSDL.

In the last quarter the Woden project made significant progress towards
aligning with the current version of the WSDL 2.0 specification. Woden
participated in the second W3C WSDL 2.0 working group interop event. During
this event the Woden team contributed a large number of new test cases to
the WSDL 2.0 test suite. Woden is set to declare milestone 7 (M7). With this
milestone Woden's component and XML models now align with the current
version of the WSDL 2.0 specification. M7 marks the first milestone for
which Woden 100% passed the component model test suite. (Note: The test
suite has since taken on additions and changes and work will need to be done
to integrate these changes in Woden as the spec approaches Proposed
Recommendation status.)

Also of note, Woden's URI resolver went through a review process, its test
suite was significantly improved, and its documentation was updated to
coincide with the current version of the project.

iPMC questions / comments:
* yoavs: how's the community doing?

----

== WSRP4J ==

iPMC Reviewers:

No report

----

== XAP ==

iPMC Reviewers: jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl, noel

Since our last report a number of people have begun contributing bug reports
and fixes through JIRA, including some huge improvements to the widget tests
that are now very robust. (Thank you Trevor) Hopefully some of these
contributors will be converted to committers in short order.

XAP is in the midst of getting out a first release - most issues have been
resolved (file headers, etc), still working through a couple things like
NOTICE file contents.

The Wiki has been updated with more information for both developers and
users. (But probably needs updating again)

Technical changes include many bug fixes to individual widgets, replacement
of the logging mechanism with a log4j-based approach (feedback on how close
this is to log4j would be appreciated, the code is in xap/log/Logger.js), a
cleaned up launch mechanism, conversion of config file from XML to JSON
format, some performance improvements, etc.

Future plans: More bug fixes, better samples and examples, constant code
cleanup and maintenance, performance improvements. (Initial loading, memory
use) Beyond that need to discuss as release winds down.

iPMC Comments:
* noel: As Justin has repeatedly told a number of projects, please follow
  the report template, e.g., "What is XAP?"

----

== Yoko ==

iPMC Reviewers: brett, jerenkrantz, yoavs, jukka, twl

Since our last report, the yoko project has added 2 committers(Alexey
Petrenko & Matteo Vescovi). We have released our first milestone release &
working towards our next release (possibly a 1.0 final release). We have
worked actively with the Geronimo, Harmony & CXF projects & fixed a lot of
inter-op issues with the ORB. The tools & the runtime needed to expose the
corba applications as web services is also beginning to look stable. Also,
we have moved to a confluence based system for our web site & currently
working on the documentation of all the components in yoko.

iPMC questions / comments:
* JE: Please submit the report in the correct format next time (i.e. "what
  is Yoko?").
* noel: Your STATUS file appears to be out of date, not reflecting the
  content of this report.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the February 21, 2007 board meeting.
