                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            March 28, 2007


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the Chair at 10:02.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Justin Erenkrantz
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik (arrived 10:13)
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        Ken Coar

    Guests:

        Jukka Zitting
        Geir Magnusson Jr

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of 

       See: board_minutes_2007_02_21.txt

       Minutes of the meeting of February 21, 2007 were tabled,
       awaiting Geir's report.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg presented at a conference in Beijing with his Apache hat
       on, and with great interest and questions from Chinese
       attendees. His presentation covered the role of Apache in the
       rise of the web, open source, and its eventual impact on the
       software industry in general. Greg is scheduled to attend
       and/or speak at several more conferences over the next few
       months, answering similar questions.
       
       He has nothing to report on the Foundation at this time... we
       appear to continue running on all cylinders with rapid growth
       and interest, and the various committees appear to be operating
       properly and covering their areas of responsibility.

    B. President [Sander]

       The Infrastructure hardware list[1] has been the same for quite a while.
       Actually the list has grown a bit, but has not been updated yet.  For
       instance, good old minotaur is more than ready for retirement.
       It has become clear that seeking out sponsors for the hardware proofs
       harder than expected.  More of a problem is that as soon as the
       needed hardware is on the list, we actually have a use for it straight
       away.  The wait of X months only causes initial planning, and motivation
       to execute on the planning to disappear.

       The way forward is to procure the hardware on the list for which the
       donation timeframe is clearly past.  There was a plan to shuffle
       machines around, given that all machines hosted in the Netherlands are
       in need of retirement.  It seems to be more efficient to procure locally
       than to ship machines.
       The cost for the new hardware is likely to be a significant amount;
       $40k ballpark.

       No progress has been made on the Contegix proposal.

       Sander will be presenting the "State of the Feather" at ApacheCon EU
       in Amsterdam early May.  He will sent a copy for review before the
       program goes to print, to ensure no significant events were left out.

       [1] http://www.apache.org/dev/hardware-wish-list.html

       General consensus was that spending $40k US for hardware
       was no problem at all and that Sander and the Infra team
       should continue with detailed costing.

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       For our sponsorship program, we have received partial payments from
       Covalent and are awaiting the first payment from HP.  A new invoice
       for the second installment for Google has not yet been issued, but
       will try to get it out next month.

       Unimaginably, PayPal has gotten even worse - as we have now been the
       target of a phishing scam where innocents have received fake receipts
       from PayPal that are duplicates of a real receipt from the ASF.
       Joshua Slive has assisted in responding to the hundreds of complaints
       received so far, but more rounds of the phishing scam continue.

       Per the last meeting, contracts were extended for the System Admin
       position and the Secreterial Assistant.  Jim should now be in receipt
       of the signed contracts.

       Our fiscal year will close on April 30.

       Current balances (as of 3/27/2007):

        Paypal             $    574.94 (-$  1,635.57)
        Checking           $ 31,247.11 (-$  2,441.22)
        Savings            $202,832.98 (+$    436.74)
        Total              $234,655.03 (-$  3,640.05)

        Justin noted that ~$70k US, for the sponsorship program,
        in currently not invoiced, but will be within the next
        months.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Things have been relatively quiet and consistent the last
       month. We are in receipt of the signed contract extensions for
       the sysadm and secretarial assistant. We have received one
       check from Car Program, LLC, which was forwarded to the
       ASF lockbox on the 26th. We have also received some faxes
       concerning the Paypal phishing scam Justin notes in his
       report. This have also been responded to via Email using
       the form letter that Joshua crafted.

       Email was sent to the membership to get some initial feedback
       on 4 potential dates for the annual members meeting. It is
       still too early to gleam any real info, but it is looking as
       though a mid-late May date will be the most viable.

       We have received no correspondence that requires board attention.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

       I have proposed a new Legal Affairs Committee to 
       distribute the current legal affairs workload to a 
       coordinated group ASF members, to assign responsibility 
       for legal policy deliberation and decision making to the
       same group under the supervision of the board, and to 
       provide a structured means of participation and 
       familiarization for those interested in taking over the 
       Legal VP job one day.  The resolution is on the agenda.  
       It is currently written as an Executive committee, but 
       we can discuss if that is best.

       I've worked with Geir on issues related to the JCK 
       licensing problems, but I will let him report on that.

    B. VP of JCP [Geir]

       Only item of major interest to the board is the ongoing 
       impasse with Sun regarding the license for the TCK for
       Java SE, also known as the "JCK".

       Last month I attended the quarterly JCP EC f2f 
       meeting and was able to give a presentation on our JCK
       issue.  I first described a hypothetical case that 
       was "structurally" similar to ours - where an imple-
       mentor was being deliberately denied a usable TCK 
       license due to the business strategy of the spec
       lead.  I then argued why such behavior was 
       prohibited by referring to the relevant sections of
       the JSPA.  Once I felt that the basics were clearly
       explained, I conducted a "straw poll" (informal, 
       unrecorded) and IMO demonstrated that the EC generally
       agreed with our assertion that the JSPA prohibits
       field of use limitations in a TCK license.
       Once this was estabilshed, I informed the EC of the
       basic details of our dipute with Sun, after which 
       followed a vigorous and somewhat heated general 
       discussion.  I'm satisfied that our issue is 
       clearly understood by the EC.

       In other related activities, we've asked the SFLC
       for help in this area, specifically to validate our
       interpretation that the offered TCK license is in 
       violation of the JSPA from the perspective that the
       terms prevent us from distributing under an open source
       license,  and also act as a liaison between us and Sun,
       as Eben is prominently positioned by Sun as a supporter
       of their recent OpenJDK project.  They did agree with
       our interpretation of terms, and engaged in discussion
       with Sun (to no avail).

       I've also asked some other industry notables that
       are independent from the ASF and the various commercial
       actors in the Java ecosystem to appeal to Sun on our 
       behalf.

       Given the lack of any material progress on this issue,
       I recommend that we explore what options and next steps
       are available to us. This will be done with the 
       consultation and approval of the membership.
       
 6. Board Committee Reports

    A. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Greg]

       See Attachment 1

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 2

       Budgeting was discussed and whether the expected $10k
       was per year or per conference. Jim reported that the
       expectation is that it would be the initial amount requested
       but that the full amount would not be spent; there would be
       some carry-over to the next conference. There was discussion
       on whether it was too late for anything to be done for
       the AC EU 2007 conference, since already hotels are booked
       solid and flights are hard to get. Jim indicated that the team
       expected that it would have very limited ability to help
       with the conference, due to timing, but would still want
       to be in the "ready-to-operate" condition in case people
       just needed, for example, registration assistance.
       
       The general consensus was to budget $10k US for the EU
       and US shows and see how it progresses.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Conference Planning Project [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment 3

       No report

    D. Apache Audit Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment 4

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Public Relations Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 5

       Henri asked if the note to PMCs, noted in the report, will
       explain what kind of people read PRs. Jim noted that it would.

       Approved by General Consent.

 7. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Garrett Rooney / Sander]

       See Attachment A

       Henri asked if the md5 code been pulled from svn or
       if it was still in place. Sander noted that it was
       still there, after all, the md5 code has been in APR
       (and previous) for a very long time, so if there were
       issues, we would have expected to hear about it by
       now.

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Dirk]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Excalibur Project [J. Aaron Farr / Cliff]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Justin]

       See Attachment D

       Sander noted that the reported limits need more investigation
       since the VMware graphs[1] do not seem to show us hitting the
       limits. Justin will work with Infra to see if upgraded
       s/w will address this.

           [1] https://loki.apache.org/vmkusage/index.html

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Harmony Project [Geir Magnusson Jr.]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache iBATIS Project [Ted Husted / Sam]

       See Attachment F

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Sam]

       See Attachment G

       Sam will remind the Incubator that "Incubating Since" dates
       should be on all reports.

       Approved by General Consent.

    H. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Jukka Zitting]

       See Attachment H

       Approved by General Consent.

    I. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Cliff]

       See Attachment I

       Cliff will inform Jakarta that they can now switch back to
       quarterly reports.

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache Labs Project [Stefano Mazzocchi / Greg]

       See Attachment J

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache Lucene Project [Doug Cutting / Ken]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache OFBiz Project [David E. Jones / Dirk]

       See Attachment L

       Henri will work with OFBiz to create a "promotional
       page" regarding the hackathon.

       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Henri]

       See Attachment M

       Jim expressed concern with the lack of reporting. Henri
       will contact Santiago regarding his availability and work-
       load and whether remaining chair is feasible. Greg will
       contact the PMC asking for a report.

       No report.

    N. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Justin Mason / Sander]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent.

    O. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Justin]

       See Attachment O

       Approved by General Consent.

    P. Apache Tomcat Project [Yoav Shapira / Jim]

       See Attachment P

       Approved by General Consent.

    Q. Apache Web Services Project [Davanum Srinivas / Greg]

       See Attachment Q

       Approved by General Consent.

    R. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Sander]

       See Attachment R

       There was some question regarding if the report was
       acceptable due to the XMLBeansCXX "subreport" not being
       included. Cliff will work with XMLBeans about XMLBeansCXX,
       since we wish to avoid issues regarding umbrella or
       "umbrella-like" projects and their pitfalls.

       Approved by General Consent after some discussion.

    S. Apache MINA Project [Trustin Lee / Sam]

       See Attachment S

       Approved by General Consent.

    T. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Brian McCallister / Cliff]

       See Attachment T

       Approved by General Consent.

    U. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Henri]

       See Attachment U

       Approved by General Consent.

 8. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache Felix Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software implementing the OSGi Service Platform
       and other software that is associated with or related to
       the OSGi Service Platform for distribution at no charge to
       the public.
 
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Felix Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the Apache Felix Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software implementing the OSGi Service Platform
       and other software that is associated with or related to
       the OSGi Service Platform; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Felix" be and
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Felix Project, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache Felix Project; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Felix Project:
 
         * Upayavira         <upayavira@apache.org>
         * Alex Karasulu     <akarasulu@apache.org>
         * Berin Loritsch    <bloritsch@apache.org>
         * Carsten Ziegeler  <cziegeler@apache.org>
         * Matteo Demuru     <demuru@apache.org>
         * Francesco Furfari <furfari@apache.org>
         * Stefano Lenzi     <lenzi@apache.org>
         * Marcel Offermans  <marrs@apache.org>
         * Noel Bergman      <noel@apache.org>
         * Karl Pauls        <pauls@apache.org>
         * Richard Hall      <rickhall@apache.org>
         * Sylvain Wallez    <sylvain@apache.org>
         * Timothy Bennett   <tbennett@apache.org>
         * Trustin Lee       <trustin@apache.org>
         * Rob Walker        <walkerr@apache.org>
 
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Richard Hall
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Felix, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until
       a successor is appointed; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Felix Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator Felix podling; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator Felix podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       PMC are hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 6A, Establish the Apache Felix Project, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

    B. Appointing a new chair for Apache Directory

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Alex
       Karasulu to the office of Vice President, Apache Directory, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Alex Karasulu from the office of Vice President,
       Apache Directory, and

       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache
       Directory project has chosen by vote to recommend Emmanuel 
       Lecharny as the successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Alex Karasulu is relieved 
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Directory, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Emmanuel Lecharny be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Directory, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 6B, Appointing a new chair for Apache Directory,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote.

    C. Establish the Legal Affairs Committee

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to create an Executive Committee charged 
       with establishing and managing legal policies based on the 
       advice of legal counsel and the interests of the Foundation; 
       and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors believes the existing office of 
       Vice President of Legal Affairs will remain a valuable role 
       within the Foundation and would benefit from the creation of such
       a committee.  

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that an ASF Executive Committee, 
       to be known as the "Legal Affairs Committee", be and hereby is 
       established pursuant to the Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it 
       further

       RESOLVED, that the Legal Affairs Committee be and hereby is
       responsible for establishing and managing legal policies based 
       on the advice of legal counsel and the interests of the 
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the responsibilities of the Vice President of 
       Legal Affairs shall henceforth include management of the Legal 
       Affairs Committee as its chair; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Legal Affairs Committee:

         Cliff Schmidt
         Davanum Srinivas
         Garrett Rooney
         Geir Magnusson
         Jim Jagielski
         Justin Erenkrantz
         Noel Bergman
         Robert Burrell Donkin
         Roy Fielding
         William Rowe

       Special Order 6C, Establish the Legal Affairs Committee,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote.

 9. Discussion Items

    None.

10. Review Outstanding Action Items

11. Unfinished Business

    None.

12. New Business

    Justin brought up the subject of the board sponsoring the
    hackathon. The general consensus was that it was too late in
    the game for the AC EU 2007 conference, but, if in a similar
    situation for the AC US 2007 show, it should be considered and
    discussed.
    
13. Announcements

    None.
    
14. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at 11:03.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

There continues to be a steady stream of reports of various kinds
arriving at security@apache.org. These continue to be dealt with
promptly by the security team. We had some interesting issues where
the vulnerability was in the interaction between two projects.  For
Jan and Feb 2007 we had 28 non-SPAM requests:

  36% (10) Actual report of a vulnerability (both valid and invalid)
  21% ( 6) User asks support question
  21% ( 6) Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
  11% ( 3) Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
  11% ( 3) User was hacked, but it wasn't ASF software at fault

Most serious issue dealt with was a critical severity issue affecting
recent versions of mod_jk where we worked successfully for the first
time with researchers at TippingPoint.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

The committee is in the process of formalizing the requested budget
and the actual formal process by which persons request assistance. Our
plans are that we are able to offer assistance for the AC Eu 07
conference, which should not be a problem. The process, as currently
being discussed is:

   1. The committee inform the PMCs of the existance of
      "travel" assistance.
   2. The PMCs then let their communities know, and relay the
      contact information for the committee to them
   3. The committee does a quick initial cut and asks
      the PMCs for feedback for those they have questions
      about.

Work is being done on detailing the exact list of
information requested by each candidate, as it relates to
our selection criteria.

The expected initial budget is $10,000 US.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Audit Project

The Audit committee are currently inactive. The outstanding issue is
to find an external auditor for the ASF accounts, but this is not
actively being worked on.

It's assumed that we'll be offering Justin our time in the third
quarter to help on the tax return, including doing a final walkthrough
of the return before it is sent in.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

Since last month, the Velocity PMC had requested that a PR be released
announcing the release of Velocity 1.5. This request made clear that the
PRC needs to make it clear that it requires sufficient lead-time in order
to review, approve and actually release any PRs. Upon further review of
the draft PR, and upon contacting Sally for her feedback, it was agreed
that the draft PR was not really a suitable PR. In other words, the
intended audience of the PR was not those who normally read PRs. As such,
spending funds to release the PR did not seem prudent, and it was not
released. Needless to say, this did not go over well with Velocity, which
we understand completely. To avoid this in the future, the PRC will be
sending Email to all PMCs informing them that (1) All potential PRs will
require at least 2 weeks notice and (2) that PRs must be intended and
directed to those entities and organizations that read PRs.

PR Newswire information was made available to the PRC Chair.

A draft PR from Covalent and IBM regarding a code donation was
submitted to the PRC for approval. Comments were sent back and
will be incorporated into their final PR. The PR did not contain
any ASF quotes.

We did respond to a couple of "acceptable logo usage" questions, prompting
Yoav to suggest that we take the Eclipse policy as a good starting
point and craft our own, a suggestion approved by the whole PRC.

The draft Forrester Report, being handled by Ted, was sent to
the PRC for review, comments and feedback.

The PRC membership list in PRC STATUS and committee-info.txt were
synced to reflect reality.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Life in APR land continues along as usual.  There is the usual amount
of mailing list discussion and bug fixing, with no major flame wars.
While various people have had discussions about directions for the
next major version of the library there has been no large scale
attempts to move beyond discussions at this time.

In personnel issues the PMC voted to give Guenter Knauf commit access,
although at this time he has not yet replied to the invite (which was
just recently sent).  Also the PMC chair has decided to step down due
to time issues, and the project is in the process of nominating a
replacement.  Expect a resolution to change the chair in time for next
months board meeting.

The only other issue of consequence remains the md4/md5 code license
issue, which has stalled due to the fact that the person who brought
the issue to our attention has not had the time to finish his code
contribution that would resolve the problem.  This will certainly need
to be dealt with before another release can occur, but nobody seems to
have risen to the occasion at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project

Infrastructure
--------------
We'd like to thank the ASF Infrastructure team for the painless
transition to TLP.

Development
-----------
* Cayenne continues to make good progress towards its goal of JPA
  compliance with the 3.0 release. Just added initial EJBQL support.
* There is some work in progress performed by Cayenne and Geronimo
  communities to integrate Cayenne JPA provider in Geronimo.
* Maven snapshots from the new 3.0 branch are now being made
  available to enhance wider testing of the new features.

Community
---------
No real changes here, although the mailing lists have been busier
than usual.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

Excalibur managed to muster enough votes to pass a release, but we're still 
in the process of putting it up on the mirrors. That should be done by the 
time of the board meeting. I was a little worried that Excalibur had become 
so quiet that we couldn't even pass a release vote, but that doesn't appear 
to be a problem. We have enough people looking in on Excalibur from time to 
time that I think the project can be properly maintained.

That said, if there's any decisions or experiments going on about dealing 
with "dormant" projects, please include the Excalibur PMC. The project has 
effectively been in maintenance mode since the Avalon split.

* No new committers
* No PMC changes


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

    * Justin was kind enough to bring vmgump's Debian packages up to
      more recent versions, many thanks.

    * vmgump probably is at its limits of disk space as well as CPU.
      A full run of what we currently build is taking more than 6 and
      a half hours.


Technical:

    * vmgump is now running Mono 1.2.3 and successfully builds NAnt.
      The next step is making Gump's NAnt support actually work and
      start building log4net.

Other:

    * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.

    * no releases.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project

Issues requiring the Board's attention: none.

Infrastructure
--------------
We have no outstanding infrastructure issues, and are happy to
report that things are working well.  Thanks, infra :)

Development
-----------

Development has been continuing, best described as "block and tackle"
work.  The activity is centered around the VM, with the efforts focused on
stability and performance, and the class library, where there's been most
activity around bugfixing.  There has been some slight progress towards
completion, but most of the efforts have been focused on the code that is
there.

We've had a bit more activity around the testing infrastructure, working
to add new tests and scenarios to help us do a better job at early
detection of bugs.  Additionally, we have had several contributions of
testing software to the project.

Security
--------
There were no reported security issues.

Community
---------
Collectively we're looking at putting together a formal release plan,
deciding on features and timing.   We're also working to ensure that the
generated snapshots pass their own unit tests.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project

Since our December 2006 report, the Apache iBATIS project has begun
public whiteboard discussions as to the design and scope of iBATIS
3.0. The framework has contained both a "DataMapper" component and a
"Data Access Object" component. The DAO component has been deprecated
and is being removed, since better, alternative solutions have been
available for some time. Some members of iBATIS group have authored
the book "iBATIS in Action", published by Manning. We have added two
new members to the PMC (board ack pending). Along the way, we also
managed to promote iBATIS for Java 2.3.0 to "General Availability"
grade, and release a new beta of iBATIS.NET.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

In addition to the individual projects, the Incubator is reviewing its
policy on Maven repository artifacts.  Currently, Incubator artifacts for
Maven are required to be placed in a separate repository, the goal being to
ensure that users are not "accidental tourists", but have agreed to use
Incubator artifacts.  Apparently, we're not quite getting what we want from
this approach, due to how Maven works, so we're revisiting the requirement,
and will likely drop the separate repository.  Perhaps we can use artifact
signing to address the matter in a future version of Maven.  Likewise, there
seems to be a consensus to move normally distributed (non-Maven) artifacts
into the mirrored ASF repository, under dist/incubator/, with the path, the
artifact names, and the disclaimer all clearly labelling the artifacts as
being in the Incubator.

There appears to be some community tension in the Tuscany project, but the
PMC consensus is that the Mentors are working on it, so we're going to let
it work itself out for now.

Heraldry has had issues because of a vendor deciding that they didn't like
having to open up to community development after all.  Work is underway to
reconstitute the project without them.  The heraldry-dev@ archives document
the events and process.

Tika, a Content Analysis Toolkit, was approved to start Incubation.

----

=== ADF Faces / Trinidad ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

Apache Trinidad is a library of JavaServer Faces components, runnable with
every JSF-compliant implementation.

The Trinidad community was working over the past three month on several
topics, like getting Trinidad stable and
continuing the work for a JSF 1.2 compliant component lib.

The mailing list traffic was normal:
 * DEV: 115 (Dec 2006), 91 (Jan 2007), 219 (Feb 2007): , 27 (March 2007)
 * USER: 233 (Dec 2006), 365 (Jan 2007), 197 (Feb 2007): , 29 (March 2007)

Portal support landed on the trunk, contributed by Scott O'Bryan.  Support
for much improved dialogs came from Danny Robinson, and is gestating
on a branch.  50 user reported issues were resolved in this period.
The quality of the JSF 1.2 branch continued to solidify.

One of the items we are most proud of is the fact that we released a
1.0.0-incubating version of our Maven2 plugins
and began preparations to release the CORE of Trinidad, the JSF components
(for JSF 1.1).

Future goals:
 * working on the release of the Trinidad CORE (meaning the JSF components)
 * working on the graduation checklist

iPMC questions / comments:

 * jukka: Things to do before graduation?
answer: we are currently checking the check list and "missing things".
Please see the dev list.
 * yoavs: seems to me that mailing list traffic this month is drastically
lower than previous months.
answer: in march: user and dev lists are on a *regular base*. Feb was much
higher in DEV, that's right.
 * jukka: The report was submitted early, so only part of the traffic this
month is included in the stats
answer: as of today, user list (243) and dev list (148) (was 219 in Feb.)

----
=== ODE ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

Apache ODE is an implementation of the BPEL4WS and WS-BPEL specifications
for web services orchestration. ODE entered incubation in March 2006.

Our activity during these past 3 months:

 * Finished the transition from Hibernate to OpenJPA. This is almost done
now with most of our scenarios working perfectly. We have to thanks the
OpenJPA guys for that!
 * A lot of efforts on reliability and performance, plus a few additional
features here and there, like improved JBI support (in addition to Axis2).
 * The user mailing-list has definitely been picking up, with more and more
interesting questions.

The focus for the coming trimester is going to be very strong on making an
incubator release now that all our IP issues have been cleared. It should
really help us on our way out of the incubator through to golden door of
success! The pending issues are:

 * Making an incubator release, which should be able to complete this
trimester finally (and should help us for the next point).
 * Attracting more committers to encourage diversity.

iPMC questions / comments:

 * jukka: Sounds good!

----
=== OpenEJB ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

OpenEJB is an open source, modular, configurable, and extendable EJB
Container System and EJB Server.

Incubating since: 2006-07-10

We received some very excellent feedback we are all really proud of from a
new face in the community.  OpenEJB has always prided itself for being the
kinder, gentler side of open source and it's really good to know this is
coming through.

http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-openejb-dev/200701.mbox/%
3cac85de250701201929x2de78662r57de9d62fa30642f@mail.gmail.com%3e

Recent New Contributors: Karan Malhi and Raj Saini contributed their first
patches.

New Committers: Manu George was voted in as an OpenEJB committer.

Mohammad Nour (voted in last reporting cycle) finally got his iCLA approved
and will be getting his well-earned commit.

Work on an OpenEJB Eclipse plugin was launched and is generated lot's of
excitement in the community.

iPMC questions / comments:

 * jukka: Things to do before graduation?


----

This is the OpenJPA status report for the board for the three month
period ending Mar 2007.

=== OpenJPA ===

PMC review: noel

OpenJPA made good progress this quarter in all areas. The project has
many active committers all driving toward improving functionality,
stability, performance, and usability.

OpenJPA has met all of the technical requirements for graduation from
incubation, and is now waiting for the community to feel ready. It is
not clear whether the destination should be a TLP or a sub-project of
another. This discussion has not been started yet. Well, I guess it
just has.

Development

Development continues on the 0.9.7 release, which will contain many
bug fixes and performance improvements. Kevin Sutter has been
volunteered to cut the release once we decide there is enough done on
the list.

The JSR 220 TCK was passed.

JIRA now contains numerous proposed bug fixes and feature
enhancements, tentatively assigned to release buckets.

Infrastructure

The project is running smoothly with all systems green.

Community

One new committer was added (Michael Dick).

Three new PPMC members were added (Kevin Sutter, Marc Prud'hommeaux,
and Abe White).


----

=== Qpid ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

The Apache Qpid Project provides an open and interoperable, multiple
language implementations of the Advanced Messaged Queuing Protocol (AMQP)
specification

Date of entry to the Incubator : 2006-09

Resolved issues
 * We have defined our policy for adding new commiters (3 new committers
voted in, 3 currently being voted on)
 * It should be noted that no issues working with the AMQP working group
have been identified yet

Top two items to resolve before graduation

 * Understanding the details between JCP and announce compliance
 * Making sure we are comfortable with the working relationship between Qpid
and the AMQP Working Group.

Our STATUS file has been updated wrt to reports and the addition of our new
committers. (should be published by the time this is read)

* Any legal, cross-project or personal issues that still need to be
addressed?

The whole project has not gone through release review and the license files
and notices need to be checked for items not in M1. All areas will be done
for M2.

* Latest developments.

    * Since entering into incubation we have had one release of the java
code base (M1).
    * We have migrated our build system from ant to maven.
    * Development has been moving forward. with improvements in memory
footprint management, passing the JMS TCK in with the java broker.
    * Addition of .NET client
    * Contributions from new non committers
    * Successfully voted to give 3 new committers access rights
    * Successfully voted to give a new member contributor rights to cwiki.
    * The creation of Web site
    * General progress on all code bases
    * In progress voting on 3 more new committers
    * Definition of test suite

* Plans and expectations for the next period?
    * During the next period we plan on improving the stability of all
language variants.
    * Release a M2 of the full project
    * Merge in branches relating to next spec version
    * Move trunk to 0-10 of AMQP specification
    * Improving tests and coverage

iPMC questions / comments:

----
=== River ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

River is aimed at the development and advancement of the Jini technology
core infrastructure. Jini technology is a service oriented architecture that
defines a programming model which both exploits and extends Java technology
to enable the construction of secure, distributed systems which are adaptive
to change.

* Apache River incubator project proposal approved on Dec 26, 2006

* Basic project structures created (mailing lists, web pages, jira, wiki,
etc)

* Much and varied discussions on direction and particulars on the river-dev
list

* ServiceUI contribution submitted and waiting PPMC formation and vote.

* Next steps include:
    * complete requirements and setup of initial committer list and PPMC
    * hold PPMC vote to accept ServiceUI contribution
    * Sun to submit Starter Kit contribution
    * hold PPMC vote to accept contribution
    * finalize jira categories and migrate pre-existing Sun bug reports
    * come to agreement on initial set of work leading to first Apache River
release

iPMC questions / comments:

 * jukka: It's taking some time for the initial codebases to be submitted.
Any blockers in the process?

----
=== TripleSoup ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

TripleSoup will be an RDF store, tooling to work with that database, and a
REST web interface to talk to that database using SPARQL, implemented as an
apache webserver module.

There are currently no issues requiring Incubator PMC or board attention.

 * project just got started
 * all basic infrastructure (SVN, basic website, status pages, mailing
lists, etc) set up
 * two committer accounts created (one account pending a CLA which is
pending legal bits)
 * IP clearance processes started
   * one initial codebase imported
   * legal process still underway for the two other initial codebases
 * not that much SVN or mailing list activity yet
   * not worried about this, we're pretty much waiting for codebases to
arrive

iPMC questions / comments:

----
=== Wicket ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

Web development framework focusing on pure OO coding, making the creation of
new components very easy. Wicket entered the incubator in October 2006.

Top three items to resolve

 * Release Apache Wicket 1.3-beta1-incubating
 * Make the 2.0 code base license policy compliant (i.e. remove LGPL
datepicker)
 * Graduate

Community aspects:

 * Community is very active and participating on @dev
 * Voted Alistair Maw in as committer
 * Voted Jean Baptiste Quenot (Cocoon developer) in as committer
 * A Wicket tutorial will be given at apachecon europe.

Code aspects:

Preparations to release Wicket 1.3-beta1-incubating have been started,
releases are being checked with RAT.
Work continues steadily on 2.0

Licensing:

 * Removed LGPL date picker component from extensions (1.3 branch, 2.0 still
todo)
 * Acquired CLA's for component/code contributions for 3 persons.
 * Replacement of License headers in source files complete, created a unit
test that checks this for all projects.

Infrastructure:

The website is generated using Confluence autoexport, and available on
   http://incubator.apache.org/wicket
Atlassian bamboo is running builds for Wicket at a private server, has
raised interest with other projects.

iPMC questions / comments:

----
=== Woden ===

iPMC Reviewers: jukka, yoavs, jim, noel

Woden is a Java class library for reading, validating, manipulating,
creating and writing WSDL documents, initially to support WSDL 2.0 and with
the longer term aim of supporting past, present and future versions of WSDL.

We are trying to track down / re-do the paperwork (Software Grant) for
donation of WSDL4J from IBM. WSDL4J is an SF.NET project under CPL 1.0 for
the original WSDL 1.1 spec. Some of the code in woden was borrowed by the
developers which is natural since woden implements WSDL 2.0 spec.

iPMC questions / comments:

 * jukka: Things to do before graduation?
 * [DIMS]: A few more committers would always help :)
 * yoavs: how long has Woden been incubation?  How's the community doing:
any new committers, contributors, or PPMC members?  When's a release going
to happen?
 * [DIMS] Please remember they are expecting to join WS PMC. So they are
already part of the larger eco system and constantly get feedback since we
are working on codegen in Axis2 based on WSDL2.0 (supported by woden). They
will most probably have to cut another milestone for use with Axis2 (soon!)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

Apache Jackrabbit is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java Technology API (JCR, specified in JSR 170).

The Apache Jackrabbit project is in good shape. We have no board-level
issues at this time.

o Releases

  We released three versions of Apache Jackrabbit; 1.2.1 in January,
  1.2.2 in February, and 1.2.3 in March.

  The 1.2 release candidate needed to be cancelled and repackaged as
  1.2.1 due to a last-minute issue that was raised during the release
  vote. This prompted a discussion on release candidates and versioning,
  which in turn resulted in some improvements to our release process.

  We are currently working on the 1.3 release.

o Community

  Przemyslaw Pakulski was added as a committer and PMC member.

  The user mailing list that was launched last year has reached the
  activity level of the development list and continues steady growth.
  The total mailing list activity is now higher than ever before.

  One session and one tutorial on JCR/Jackrabbit have been scheduled
  for the upcoming ApacheCon EU. We are also planning to organize a
  Jackrabbit BOF during the conference.

  Based on the experiences from last summer, we are proposing a
  Google Summer of Code 2007 project to build a JCR demo application
  based on Apache Jackrabbit.

  There is interest in starting a new incubating content analysis toolkit
  project named Tika. Hopefully the project will as a side effect build
  more bridges between the Lucene and Jackrabbit communities.

o Development

  The 1.2 releases include a new beta-level clustering feature that is
  attracting much interest. Many corner cases are being ironed out based
  on feedback and bug reports from the user community, and it seems that
  we can soon declare the feature stable.

  The main new feature in the 1.3 release is a set of "bundle persistence
  manager" components contributed by Day. These components bring a major
  performance boost to many Jackrabbit user cases. The contributed IP has
  been cleared and is now being integrated into the Jackrabbit codebase.

  There have been a number of cases where users have suggested some
  internal changes to better handle specific performance and other
  requirements. Unfortunately few of such discussions have resulted in
  proposed patches. We should do better to encourage patch submissions.

o Infrastructure

  The Solaris zone we requested is now up and running. We have a Continuum
  installation doing nightly builds and continuous integration tests for
  all the Jackrabbit release components. So far we've seen zero
  build-breaking commits.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

Status

Activity seems to pick in projects that haven't been so active, so that's
really good news. Besides the releases and the code donation (see Cactus)
and the releases, there is nothing in particular that needs board attention
at this moment.
On a side note : I really hope we can go back to the 3 month schedule again.
If there is something out of the ordinary however, I will add an extra report.

Releases

* 13 February 2007 - Commons Fileupload 1.2 Released
* 17 March 2007 - Commons HttpClient 3.1-rc1 Released
* 18 March 2007 - Commons Transaction 1.2 Released
* 18 March 2007 - Jakarta Regexp 1.5 released

Community changes

Ant Elder - Voted as a committer for the BSF.
Stephen Kestle - Voted as a committer for Commons

BSF
Ant Elder - Voted as a committer for the BSF.

Cactus

Currently in the process of voting on a new committer (Petar Tahchiev).
After this vote a vote will be started to finish the code donation
by Petar, for more details of the code grant, please see
http://incubator.apache.org/ip-clearance/jakarta-cactus-tahchiev.html.

Commons FileUpload

The release 1.2 of Commons Fileupload 1.2 introduces a new streaming API,
which allows to use the library with arbitrarily large files and an extremely
low memory profile.

POI

Gearing up for a release of 3.0, which hopefully will be in a month or so's
time.

Regexp

Released 1.5 version of Regexp which brings number of known issues down to 3.
Dev and user lists are quiet.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

Labs have been very quiet lately, nothing really changed that requires
board attention.

[Addendum]

We hear confusion has arisen about the purpose of the Labs project.
It has been suggested that it is the aim of the Labs project to
replace any sandbox efforts of individual projects.  As the board has
already concluded, this is not the case. Labs VP Stefano Mazzocchi's
introductory e-mail was quite clear on the intent and purpose of
Labs.  Additionally, the Labs PMC has added an entry to the FAQ list
on labs.apache.org addressing this issue, and will continually dispel
any such notion should it arise in the future.

and the FAQ reads:

"Q: Now that we have Labs, can our project still have a Sandbox?

 A: Of course you can. Apache Labs do not replace the project
    sandboxes.  Instead, the Labs were designed to allow individual
    Apache committers room to experiment outside the constraints of an
    existing project."


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

TLP

The top-level project added one new PMC member, Grant Ingersoll.

LUCENE JAVA

Lucene Java is a search-engine toolkit.  Development was active and
a major release was made, version 2.1.  Two new committers were added:
Michael Busch, and Doron Cohen.

NUTCH

Nutch is a web-search engine: crawler, indexer and search runtime.
Several significant improvements and fixes have been made during the
last three months, and a new release is scheduled in March. One new
committer was added, Dennis Kubes.

HADOOP

Hadoop is a scalable distributed computing platform.  Its monthly
release schedule has continued.  Three new committers have been added:
Tom White, Nigel Daley and Dhruba Borthakur.

SOLR

Solr is a full text search server.  Solr recently graduated from the
Incubator and became an official subproject of Lucene.  Development
is active, with over 60 issues resolved this quarter, and a new Ruby
on Rails GUI component called Solr Flare was initiated.

LUCY

Lucy will develop a shared C-based core for ports of Lucene to other
languages, such as Perl, Python and Ruby.  Only minor, sporadic progress
has been made this quarter.

LUCENE.NET

Lucene.Net is an incubator project providing a port of Java Lucene to
the .NET platform. Much of the code is converted using a code generator,
with hand tweaking as needed. Recently the Lucene.Net project has been
energized with a new sense of responsibility thanks to the gentle
administrative reminders of where the project has gone astray. George
Aroush, the primary developer on the Lucene.Net project, has been eager
to work within the incubator process, and has come up to speed a lot
recently in response. All signs are good of a healthier project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

This report, for March 2007, is the third monthly report for OFBiz
(Open For Business) as a top level project.

The Open For Business Project (Apache OFBiz) is an open source
enterprise automation software project. By enterprise automation we
mean: ERP, CRM, E-Business / E-Commerce, MRP, SCM, CMMS/EAM, and so on.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

Community:
- two new committers (Timothy Ruppert and Ray Barlow) were voted in
just before the February report, and now have SVN commit access, Jira
access, and so on setup
- a Developers Conference (a hackathon of sorts) for OFBiz happened
the week of 5-9 Mar 2007 in Ephraim, Utah, USA; attendance varied
over the week with a total of 12 people participating on-site, plus
involvement of a few people in efforts remotely; we made progress on
testing tools, content management, project/workeffort management,
visual refinements, and various code modernization and cleanup and
refactoring efforts
- there is a great deal of community interaction on the mailing lists
and issue tracker as the community grows and we are working on
getting more people involved on a regular basis with access to the
necessary resources to help leverage this increase of involvement

Project:
- we are now planning a release branch and beta release for late
March; the release plan for OFBiz is available here: 
http://docs.ofbiz.org/x/1wE


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Portals Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- A security issue was reported, and assigned CVE-2007-0451, which affects
  SpamAssassin's handling of lots of large URLs, causing denial of service
  through heavy memory consumption.  The message was found "in the wild", but
  was a non-spam message; attackers are not using this (yet).  We released
  SpamAssassin 3.1.8 to fix it.

- SpamAssassin 3.2.0, our next major release, is impending; hopefully only
  weeks away.  We've completed the heavy CPU lifting (the "mass-check" step and
  new score generation); it's just a few little bugs and release-candidate
  tarballs to go.

- We changed our prerelease issuing policy; previously, we had required 3
  committer +1's to name a snapshot as a developer-test prerelease. However, we
  were running into situations where this was failing due to lack of committer
  votes.  We've now voted on and switched to a model where a prerelease tarball
  can be issued with just "lazy consensus".

- we are discussing changing our committer/PMC structure, adopting something
  closer to a Roy-style "all committers == PMC" model, instead of the current
  one where our PMC is a smaller "core" of the committer group.  Right now,
  we're thinking that committers who have been committers for over 6 months,
  and have committed any code in the previous 3 months, automatically receive
  an invitation to join the PMC.  Comments welcome!


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

Not a great deal to report this month.

The Tiles project is moving at a steady pace.  Release 2.0.1 was voted 
alpha-quality by the PMC and copied to the mirrors last week.  Development 
is continuing to stabilize the 2.0 codebase so we can release a GA soon.  
Most of the list traffic is still taking place on the DEV list, including a 
few proposals for new development tracks.  There hasn't been a lot of user 
feedback as of yet, but we expect more of that to come with a Beta or GA 
release. 

There have been no committer or PMC changes in this reporting period.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

Apache Tomcat Board Report, March 2007

Summary: Tomcat is chugging along, with significant development
milestones achieved this quarter, and no issues requiring Board
attention.

Community:
- We've voted in one new committer, Fabien Carrion, whose iCLA will
hopefully be recorded this week.

- We've voted in one new PMC member, Rainer Jung, as ACKed by the
Board a couple of days ago.

- We've restored one committer, Guenter Knauf, from inactive/emeritus
status, back to active status, after re-verifying his iCLA and PGP
key, and running an informal vote on the issue.

Development:
- We released the first stable version of Tomcat 6, version 6.0.10,
after much testing and iteration.  We feel very good about the
quality, scalability, and performance of the release.  Apparently it's
pretty popular, too, judging by the various traffic spikes starting
with the release announcement:
http://people.apache.org/~vgritsenko/stats/days-trend.html

- We released a couple of versions of Tomcat 5.5, including a stable 5.5.23.

- We released a couple of versions of the Tomcat Connectors, including
mod_jk, 1.2.19, 1.2.20, and 1.2.21.

- I personally am very happy with the distributed nature of our
release management, in terms of how different people are cutting
releases and can back the designated RM for each branch if need be.

- We've worked hard to improve Tomcat-related security information on
the web site, creating a new set of summary pages using a similar
model to httpd's: http://tomcat.apache.org/security.html is a work in
progress, but a great improvement over the previous (lack of) data, we
think.

- We've also worked to improve integration and co-operation with the
Apache Security Team, triaging and communicating jointly on issues,
and educating some of the newer Tomcat PMC members about the process.

- We've also been working more closely with downstream packagers of
Tomcat for Linux, specifically Gentoo, and getting their early
feedback on each release as tested in their environment.  I think
that's a cool process improvement, just worth noting that it's been
working well.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

- The Synapse project graduated from Incubation on the 2nd of January 
2007, and released its 0.91 version on the 8th of January. Three new 
committers Indika Kumara, Chathura Ekanayake and Tijs Rademakers have 
been voted in, and the team is preparing for the 1.0 release in the 
near future. 
- Apache Muse 2.2.0 will be released on March 23rd, 2007. Muse-based 
applications are now capable of running on JREs that conform to the 
J2ME Foundation Profile.
- Axis2 released v1.1.1 on 09th January 2007. We are in the process
of releasing Axis2 1.2 with a RC1 already cut on Mar 26.
- Watching with interest on the board list about voting for making
releases. Since in WS PMC, we vote before the Release Manager cuts
the release.
- We are archiving some old projects like Apache SOAP etc.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

Development continues with small enhancements and bug fixes. Traffic on 
mailing lists seems to be at the same levels after a little slowdown during 
holidays. There were no new releases this quarter but discussion started on 
dev list for a new 2.3 release. There arent any new committers or PMC 
changes.

Xmlbeanscxx subproject:

  Report not yet received.


------------------------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Apache MINA is a Java network application framework, which enables rapid 
development of high-performance and high-quality network applications.

TLP Promotion
===========
I can't think of any more things to do for TLP promotion.  Please let us 
know if there's something needs to be done.  Once considered finished, we 
will remove this section in the board report from next time.

Releases
=======
1.0.2 has been released with 14 bug fixes and 3 improvements.  We are 
currently releasing bi-monthly for now, though we haven't intended to do 
so.  It seems like there's a natural rhythm in this project. :)

Community News
============
As of release of version 1.0.2, the rate of bug report has been dropped 
down significantly.  We are focusing on answering questions in the mailing 
list and writing mini-tutorials, which will be merged into one thorough 
guide book someday.

Issues
=====
There are two source code contribution in progress.  The one is 
AsyncWeb (http://asyncweb.safehaus.org/ ), a HTTP implementation based on 
MINA.  The other is a few classes that supports heart-beat mechanism for 
MINA.  The owners of the source code, LogicaCMG and Indagon Ltd 
respectively, have signed software grants and faxed them.

We see no problem importing these two contributions because the main 
authors of AsyncWeb are already members of MINA PMC, and the heart-beat 
implementation is small enough (just 4 classes) for us to maintain.  
They are going to be imported into the SVN repository once the software 
grants are confirmed.

Alex Karasulu and Robert Burrell Donkin helped us to understand the 
overall process about accepting code contribution.  We couldn't make 
all this happen without their help!


------------------------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

In the last month ActiveMQ has prepared a bugfix release candidate
for version 4.1.1. This release will primarily backport a number of
fixes from trunk. We hope to complete a vote on the release shortly.

There has been some discussion about creating separate areas in the
site for the various non-Java clients. This would be something like
sub-projects, but not really as the mailing lists and resources are
still all shared. How to proceed with this has not yet been determined.

Hiram Chirino completed a very nice site redesign, which has been
deployed.


------------------------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

There are four areas of activities in Roller right now, here's a
summary of status and progress in each.

Graduation

Apache Roller has graduated so now we're trying to get a website up
and running at roller.apache.org. We've filed a JIRA request with the
INFRA team (https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-1181). Once we
get up and running we'll make more formal announcements and perhaps a
press release via the PRC. We have a new release ready (3.1) that
could coincide with the announcement.

Roller 3.1 release

At RC5, Roller 3.1 is just about ready to roll. We could hold off and
time the release with the graduation announcements, or not. The What's
New in Roller 3.1 page is here:
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER/What%27s+new+in+Roller+3.1

Roller 4.0 release

In 4.0 we plan to make some infrastructural changes to Roller;
switching to a new non-Hibernate backend, requiring Java SE 5 and
starting the Struts2 migration. We were planning to wrap up work by
late March, but a host of new proposals just rolled in so March is
probably out of the picture. The latest 4.0 proposal is here:
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER/Proposal+Roller+4.0+Release

Hibernate replacement for 4.0

We'll soon have a couple of options for replacing Hibernate, our sole
remaining LGPL dependency. Craig Russell and Mitesh Mewani developed a
new JPA based backend for Roller using a datamapper abstraction that
allows support of JPA, JDO and other technologies. Dave Johnson
developed a new version of the JPA backend that calls JPA directly.
Elias Torres reports that IBM will soon donate an iBatis
implementation as well. We hope to find consensus on which one to use
by doing a bake-off.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the March 28, 2007 board meeting.
