                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                           August 28, 2012


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 9:00am (Eastern) and began at
    9:01 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the Chairman. The meeting was held
    in person at Adobe's offices in McLean, VA.

    Thanks to Adobe for hosting the meeting.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Rich Bowen
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Ross Gardler
        Jim Jagielski
        Brett Porter
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein

    Executive Officer Present:

        Craig L Russell

 3. Schedule
 
    9am to Noon: Executive Session
    
    Noon: Hosted Lunch on site

    Noon to 5pm: ASF Members, Officers, and invited guests may attend

 4. Special Orders

    A. Executive Officer Appointments
    
       Chairman 
       Vice Chairman
       President
       Executive Vice President
       Treasurer
       Secretary
       
       The Treasurer and Secretary are responsible for appointing
       their Assistants, with input and advice from the Board.

       Sam is (constantly) looking to be replaced in his many positions,
       but is willing to continue as long as there are no qualified
       volunteers.

       Sam has been caretaker as Treasurer but has not much experience.
       Chris Mattmann has loaded the books into Quicken and has expressed
       interest in becoming the Treasurer. He was appointed perforce.

       Hadrian has been active in looking at the books and will manage
       the audit, separate from the office of Treasurer.

       Craig L Russell has tried to get assistants to take up some of the
       workload of Secretary, with the intent to appoint an assistant,
       and eventually be replaced once the assistant is comfortable in the
       role. But to date none of the volunteers has done more than
       subscribe to the secretary mail alias.

       Regarding the EVP role: is it necessary? The bylaws require it;
       the EVP acts for the President in his absence; there is no other 
       defined task, and there is normally nothing to do.

       What about a board member taking EVP? Some in the membership want
       to have fewer board == executive officer appointments, and have
       expressed that the President should act as a non-voting director.

       It is an advantage to have the EVP be the face of Apache in
       different time zones.

       Ross Gardler volunteered and was appointed as the EVP.

       Greg noted that the Vice Chair title is useful for fundraising.
       He was appointed as Vice Chair.

       The Vice Chair should be added to the chairman@ alias.

       The EVP should be added to the president@ alias.

       The Board unanimously approved the executive officer appointments:

       Chairman Douglass Cutting
       Vice Chairman Greg Stein
       President Jim Jagielski
       Executive Vice President Ross Gardler
       Treasurer Chris Mattmann
       Assistant Treasurer Sam Ruby
       Secretary Craig L Russell
       Assistant Secretary Sam Ruby

 5. Discussion Items

    A. Set deadline for receipt of OSI Affiliate Agreement.

      Apache became an affiliate of OSI in 2011 with the expectation that 
      the role of affiliate would be more clearly defined. Since then, 
      there has been very little progress on defining the roles. 
      At minimum, affiliates need to be involved, and ideally approve, 
      public policy positions of OSI.

      There can be advantages to Apache from an affiliation with OSI. 
      For example, OSI can make statements regarding public policy that 
      Apache would endorse, but as a 501(c)(3) charity, cannot. 

      Once the formal affiliate role is defined, Apache should appoint a 
      VP, OSI to manage the relationship. 

      In order to move the affiliate process along, we should make a 
      request to OSI to formalize the affiliate program by the face-to-face 
      meeting of OSI in November.

    B. Further discussion on travel budgeting. Ref: Larry Rosen's suggestion
      to make this a President's function.

      This is a good idea. Jim and Ross agreed to draft a policy for 
      approval by the board. Interim, requests for travel should be sent 
      to president@ for approval.

      Jim and Ross will draft the policy for travel.

    C. Executive Director (ED)

      Roy: We need to manage contractors (infra, press, apachecon); we 
      might consider hiring an ED.

      Many, possibly most, foundations delegate running the foundation 
      to an ED. The ED sets policy and implements the policy with minimal 
      direction from the board. Apache is on the other end of the 
      continuum, with the board very involved in setting policy, and 
      volunteers taking responsibility for running operations.

      Jim, as President, would like to take more responsibility, such 
      as: manage books to pass an audit; manage contractors; manage 
      fundraising; manage contractors in different countries.

      Greg would want ED to be a member to avoid not understanding how 
      Apache works. Consider growth; once we have a 6th contractor, we 
      should consider an ED. Basically the foundation runs smoothly 
      day-to-day, but what happens with unusual situations that come up?

      Greg suggests we cannot delegate more to Jim because he isn't paid. 
      Perhaps an ED could be better at managing people as a paid employee.

      Bertrand offers that looking at what we envision the ED doing, 
      it seems like a COO or Director of Operations title would be more 
      appropriate. 

      Sam doesn't see the problem; we have plenty of member/volunteers 
      to cover the tasks that need to be done. In future, if we run out 
      of bandwidth, we can reconsider. 

      If the board agrees to create an ED position in future, we would 
      probably look at someone who executes the strategy set by the board 
      and members, not at someone who sets the direction of the foundation, 
      as an ED might be expected to do.

      Meanwhile, we will create an operations@ mail list to discuss 
      non-project items needing President attention or coordination, 
      and make President responsible for concom, press, infra, 
      fundraising, bookkeeping, trademark, travel assistance board reports.

      This brings the President's role closer to an ED/COO role, and 
      should help delegate some or all of our operations management tasks 
      to a hired ED should the need arise.

    D. Infra

      The board would like infra to make it easier for new committers 
      to understand how it works and to set expectations, e.g. setup for 
      podlings; setup for graduation; how to request service (JIRA ticket, 
      IRC, email to infra, infra-private, infra-dev?)

      Sam's preference is for JIRA for most items that aren't already 
      automated

The board meeting was recessed at 12:05 and reconvened at 12:53.

    Afternoon Guests Present:

        Kevin A. McGrail

    E. ApacheCon

      As discussed on concom, the goal is to get as many Apache committers 
      to attend as possible, with a financial exposure of 20,000 - 30,000 EUR.  
      SAP requested a focus on getting university student attendance.

      The first sponsor is lined up, with other potential sponsors expressing 
      interest. There are variable costs of approximately 220 euro per head, 
      for meeting space and food. No evening events are currently organized, 
      but more sponsors == more events. 

      The venue can handle 450 but local hotels are limited to 250

      Thus far, 8 committers have bought tickets.

      It looks like with 150 subsidized tickets, Apache's exposure is 
      25,000 euro assuming that no tickets are sold at full price and we 
      get no sponsors.

      Should concom be disbanded? At least wait until ApacheCon NA is done.

      Prepare an omnibus resolution for September board meeting changing
      status of PMC's identified above as President's committees.

    F. Apache OpenOffice podling needs some guidance

      The board feels that the AOO PPMC is not yet operating as a PMC 
      should. The concerns are primarily with the ability of the PPMC to 
      self-police its members' behavior on-list. Ross will draft a note 
      to ooo-private with board's concerns.

      AOO has requested releasing binaries as official Apache releases.
      Flex has also requested signed binaries.

      Roy suggests: (P)PMC approves a source release. Infra then can build 
      and sign binary releases. The board may approve this if properly 
      reviewed.

      Jim will send a message to committers@ regarding binaries signed by 
      Apache.

      Sam will make committers@ archived publicly with a public URL for 
      each message.

 6. Review Outstanding Action Items

 7. Unfinished Business

 8. New Business

  8A. Establish the Apache Any23 Project

    WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
    interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
    purpose to establish a Project Management Committee charged with
    the creation and maintenance of open-source software, for
    distribution at no charge to the public, related to automatic crawling, 
    parsing, analyzing, producing, validating and converting 
    RDF (Resource Description Framework) data;

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
    Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Any23 Project",
    be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
    Foundation; and be it further

    RESOLVED, that the Apache Any23 Project be and hereby is
    responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
    related to automatic crawling, parsing, analyzing, producing, 
    validating and converting RDF (Resource Description Framework) 
    data and be it further

    RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Any23" be
    and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
    serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
    of the Apache Any23 Project, and to have primary responsibility
    for management of the projects within the scope of
    responsibility of the Apache Any23 Project; and be it further

    RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
    hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
    Apache Any23 Project:

       * Lewis John McGibbney   <lewismc@apache.org>
       * Paul Ramirez           <pramirez@apache.org>
       * Simone Tripodi         <simonetripodi@apache.org>
       * Tommaso Teofili        <tommaso@apache.org>
       * Davide Palmisano       <dpalmisano@apache.org>
       * Giovanni Tummarello    <giovanni@apache.org>
       * Michele Mostarda       <mostarda@apache.org>
       * Reto Bachmann-Gmü      <reto@apache.org>
       * Szymon Danielczyk      <szydan@apache.org>
       * Andy Seaborne          <andy@apache.org>
       * Peter Ansell           <ansell@apache.org>

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Michele Mostarda 
    be appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Any23 to
    serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
    Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
    death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,
    or until a successor is appointed; and be it further

    RESOLVED, that the Apache Any23 Project be and hereby
    is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
    Incubator Any23 podling; and be it further

    RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache
    Incubator Any23 podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
    Project are hereafter discharged.
 
    Special Order 8A, Establish the Apache Any23 Project, was
    approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

  8B. Establish the Apache Oozie Project

  WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
  interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
  Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
  Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
  open-source software related to a system for managing and
  scheduling workflows that run different types of Hadoop
  jobs (such as MapReduce, Pig, Hive and Sqoop) as well as
  system specific jobs (such as Java programs and shell
  scripts) for distribution at no charge to the public;

  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
  Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Oozie Project",
  be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
  Foundation; and be it further

  RESOLVED, that the Apache Oozie Project be and hereby is
  responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
  related to a system for managing and scheduling workflows
  that run different types of Hadoop jobs (such as MapReduce,
  Pig, Hive and Sqoop) as well as system specific jobs (such
  as Java programs and shell scripts); and be it further

  RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Oozie" be
  and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
  serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
  of the Apache Oozie Project, and to have primary responsibility
  for management of the projects within the scope of
  responsibility of the Apache Oozie Project; and be it further

  RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
  hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
  Apache Oozie Project:

       * Alan Gates            gates@apache.org
       * Alejandro Abdelnur    tucu@apache.org
       * Andreas Neumann       anew@apache.org
       * Angelo Huang          angeloh@apache.org
       * Chao Wang             brookwc@apache.org
       * Chris Douglas         cdouglas@apache.org
       * Devaraj Das           ddas@apache.org
       * Harsh Chouraria       harsh@apache.org
       * Mayank Bansal         mayank@apache.org
       * Mohammad Islam        kamrul@apache.org
       * Virag Kothari         virag@apache.org

  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Alejandro Abdelnur
  be appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Oozie,
  to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
  Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
  death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,
  or until a successor is appointed; and be it further

  RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Oozie PMC be and hereby is
  tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
  encourage open development and increased participation in the
  Apache Oozie Project; and be it further

  RESOLVED, that the Apache Oozie Project be and hereby
  is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
  Incubator Oozie podling; and be it further

  RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache
  Incubator Oozie podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
  Project are hereafter discharged.

  Special Order 8B, Establish the Apache Oozie Project, was
  approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

 9. Announcements

  On behalf of the Board, Doug thanked Adobe for hosting this meeting.

10. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 2:55 PM

