
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                          February 23, 2005


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at
    10:08 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Stefano Mazzocchi

    Guests:

        None

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of December 15, 2004

       SVN - foundation/board/board_minutes_2004_12_15.txt
       
       This agenda item was tabled.

    B. The meeting of January 19, 2005

       SVN - foundation/board/board_minutes_2005_01_19.txt
       
       This agenda item was tabled.


 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       It has been a relatively quiet month since our last Board
       meeting. Much of the "ASF as an entity" work has focused around
       licensing discussions with the FSF, and PRC interactions with
       other organizations (e.g. Jinx). The general ASF activity level
       continues apace, with several projects applying for top-level
       status this month.

    B. President [Dirk]

       Dirk had nothing to report, but did request that Oasis
       be added to the 'New Business' agenda item.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

       Lockbox services are still being pursued with WF. I wonder if
       it would be worth changing banks, given the lack of response
       here. I'll see if that possibility jars WF into action.

       We are still awaiting a $10,000 wire transfer from Security
       Travel.

       Brian Fitzpatrick and I spoke with Sean Gailey and resolved
       some serious communications problems between ASF and Jinx.
       Brian has a new contract for Jinx under consideration on'
       fundraising@, and I have received for deposit a check for
       $1000 from Jinx for our (previously unknown) proceeds from
       ASF-branded Jinx wares.

       2004 financials still remain to have reports generated and
       committed to svn.

       Current balances (as of 02/22/2005):

       Paypal           $2913.44
       Checking        $17739.96
       Premium Mkt.   $100202.82

       Total          $120856.22

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Nothing really to report. The ASF office has not received any
       paperwork or notices requiring the board's attention.  CLAs
       are being received and filed.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill]

       No submitted report.

    B. Apache Cocoon Project [Sylvain Wallez]

       See Attachment B

       Apache Cocoon Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    C. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley]

       See Attachment C

       There was discussions regarding the item in the Forrest
       Report concerning the "new" Copyright line.  There was some
       concern and discussion in the legal-discuss mailing list the
       the current wording was deemed "unacceptable" by Larry
       Rosen. It was mentioned that Larry and Robyn are discussing
       it.

       Apache Forrest Project report approved as submitted and
       discussed by general consent.

    D. Apache HTTP Server Project [Sander Striker]

       Sander reported that other than some releases of both the
       Apache 1.3 and 2.0 tree, and continued development on both
       as well as the 2.1 tree, and the addition of one new
       PMC member, there was nothing major to report.

       Apache HTTP Server Project report approved as submitted and
       discussed by general consent.

    E. Apache Lenya Project [Rolf Kulemann]

       See Attachment E

       Apache Cocoon Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    F. Apache Logging Project [Ceki Gülcü]

       No submitted report.

    G. Apache Perl Project [Geoffrey Young]

       See Attachment G

       Apache Perl Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    H. Apache XML Project [Berin Lautenbach]

       See Attachment H

       There was some discussion regarding the note that under AxKit,
       most work was being done "elsewhere." It was noted that AxKit
       is described as "healthy" but it was agreed that Dirk would
       investigate to see if there were any licensing issues.

       Apache XML Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    I. Apache XML Graphics Project [Jeremias Märki]

       See Attachment I

       Apache XML Graphics Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    J. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl]

       See Attachment J

       Apache Maven Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    K. Apache Xalan Project [Brian Minchau]

       See Attachment K

       Apache Xalan Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    L. Public Relations Committee [Brian W. Fitzpatrick]

       See Attachment L

       Public Relations Committee report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    M. Conferences Committee [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment M

       Conferences Committee report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Change the Chair of the Apache Struts Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Craig R.
       McClanahan to the office of Vice President, Apache Struts, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Craig R. McClanahan from the office of Vice President, Apache Struts;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Craig R. McClanahan is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of
       Vice President, Apache Struts, and

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Martin Cooper be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Struts, to
       serve in accordance with and  subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
       appointed.

       By Unanimous vote, the above Special Order, 6A: Change the Chair
       of the Apache Struts Project, was approved.

    B. Establish the Apache MyFaces Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to building Java Server
       application GUIs based on JavaServer Faces (JSR-127), for
       distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache MyFaces PMC", be
       and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache MyFaces PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software for
       building Java Server application GUIs based on JavaServer Faces
       (JSR-127), and for related software components, based on
       software licensed to the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache MyFaces"
       be and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache MyFaces PMC, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the projects within the scope of
       responsibility of the Apache MyFaces PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache MyFaces PMC:

           Manfred Geiler <manolito@apache.org>
           Thomas Spiegl <tomsp@apache.org>
           Martin Marinschek <mmarinschek@apache.org>
           Matthias Wessendorf <matzew@apache.org>
           Sylvain Vieujot <svieujot@apache.org>
           Grant Smith <grantsmith@apache.org>
           Bill Dudney <bdudney@apache.org>
           Anton Koinov <anton@apache.org>
           Travis Reeder <treeder@apache.org>
           Ted Husted <husted@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Manfred Geiler be
       and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       MyFaces to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed, and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache MyFaces PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache MyFaces Project.

       By a vote of 7 Yea and 1 Abstention, the above Special Order,
       6B: Establish the Apache MyFaces Project, was approved.

    C. Establish the Apache Xerces Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to XML parsing technologies, for
       distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Xerces PMC", be and
       hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and
       be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Xerces PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
       related to creation and maintenance of open-source software
       related to XML parsing technologies based on software licensed
       to the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Xerces" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve
       at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Xerces PMC, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache Xerces PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Xerces PMC:

           Andy Clark <andy@apache.org>
           Michael Glavassevich <mrglavas@ca.ibm.com>
           Neil Graham <neilg@ca.ibm.com>
           Berin Lautenbach <berin@wingsofhermes.org>
           Gareth Reakes <gareth@apache.org>
           Jason Stewart <jason@openinformatics.com>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, than Gareth Reakes
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Xerces, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Xerces PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Xerces Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Xerces PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache XML
       PMC Xerces subproject; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the XML Xerces
       sub-project and encumbered upon the Apache XML PMC are
       hereafter discharged.

       By Unanimous Vote, the above Special Order,
       6D: Establish the Apache Xerces Project, was approved.

    D. Establish the Apache Directory Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of an
       open-source directory server and naming related software, for
       distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Directory PMC", be
       and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the "Apache Directory PMC" be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of a directory
       server and naming related software based on software licensed
       to the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Directory"
       be and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache Directory PMC, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the projects within the scope of
       responsibility of the Apache Directory PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Directory PMC:

           Enrique Rodriguez <erodriguez@apache.org>
           Phil Steitz <psteitz@apache.org>
           Alex Karasulu <akarasulu@apache.org>
           Vince Tence <vtence@apache.org>
           Trustin Lee <trustin@apache.org>
           Brett Porter <brett@apache.org>
           Noel J. Bergman <noel@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Alex Karasulu be
       and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Directory, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Directory PMC be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of rules and procedures
       intended to encourage open development and increased
       participation in the Apache Directory community.

       By Unanimous Vote, the above Special Order,
       6D: Establish the Apache Directory Project, was approved.

 7. Discussion Items

    Greg indicated his desire to add the Executive Director discussion
    to next month's Board agenda.

 8. Unfinished Business

    None.

 9. New Business

    A. OASIS response

       There was discussion whether the ASF should develop or otherwise
       contribute to the development of code which implements protocols
       or standards that are, or may be, patent encumbered.  It was
       generally agreed that such encumbrances go against some basic
       foundations of the ASF, which is to foster open standards.  Dirk
       was tasked with sending out an Email to all projects asking them
       to check the standards and protocols they are implementing for
       possible conflicts.

    B. Google grant program

       Greg reported the Google Grant program is still progressing and
       that Google is "OK" with our list of limitations which we feel
       we can comfortably abide by.

10. Announcements

    None.

11. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PST -0800. Adjourned at 11:47.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

NO SUBMITTED REPORT

-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Community:
- Cocoon 2.1.6 has been released in November. This is a maintainance
  release. Cocoon 2.2 development is going on, and we reduced its
  original scope to allow for an earlier release as it already
  includes a number of much wanted improvements.

- The Java continuation engine and Java compiler interface that had
  being written in Cocoon have been moved to the Jakarta commons
  sandbox (JavaFlow and JCI) because we felt they could be used in a
  number of other contexts and may attract other developpers.

- there's an ongoing effort to refactor our documentation and its
  writing process, at the poor structuration of our docs is a major
  problem for newcomers.

- a new french-speaking user list has been created as an answer to the
  fact that many Cocoon-related questions where asked on other
  french-speaking lists and forums.

Legal:
The legal issues related to the Mozilla Rhino fork supporting
continuations are solved, as we now use the latest official version
which has continuation support.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Issues needing board attention
------------------------------
Clarification of the recent discussion on legal-discuss about the new
Copyright line in the source license header.

New committers and new PMC members
----------------------------------
None

General status
--------------
* Published our initial "project guidelines".
We looked around many other projects and distilled our own set.
http://forrest.apache.org/guidelines.html
* Updated the license headers for all our source files to reflect the
recent Board resolution to change the Copyright line.
* The community is developing at a steady pace on dev and users lists.
There are some potential new committers which we will get to soon.

Issues still to be dealt with by the Forrest PMC
------------------------------------------------
None at this stage.

Progress of the project
-----------------------
* Steadily working on 0.7-dev
* Good work done on the new plugin system.
* Demonstration forrestbot now on brutus.

General observations during last quarter
----------------------------------------
* A "Legal FAQ" is required at the top-level ASF website to
assist all committers/PMCs.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

NO SUBMITTED WRITTEN REPORT: ORAL REPORT PRESENTED
BY SANDER.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Issues needing Board attention
---------------------------------
* none atm


New commiters and new PMC members
---------------------------------

* none atm ?


General status
---------------------------------
* For Lenya 1.4 it is planned to use a DB backed (JCR...) content
  repository.  Unfortunately we didn't made big progress towards that
  for several reasons; much time was spent with the TLP move, the
  1.2.1 release, and release guidelines/plans.  Beside that, the
  repo. integration requires some major detail changes and thus will
  bind a lot of resources, which the community couldn't afford yet.

* The content repo. integration needs more active discussion.
  This is a high priority topic for Lenya's future and acceptance.

* TLP move complete including source files and infrastructure
  resources


Progress
---------------------------------

* The Lenya community set up a general release plan and a release how
  to. See
   - http://wiki.apache.org/lenya/ReleaseHowTo
   - http://wiki.apache.org/lenya/ReleasePlan
  It is planed to make small releases every 2-3 months

* Lenya 1.2.1 was released at the end of December along the above
  schedule.  This is the first TLP release.

* Lenya 1.2.2 will be released at the end of February

* Lenya 1.4 branch is under active development.
  At the moment this branch mainly contains minor architectural
  changes and most bug fixes from the 1.2.x branch.

  A lot of progress has been made on the 1.4 branch to remove
  deprecated Cocoon technologies, such as Actions and XSP.

  A major problem is to stabilize new medium features and to keep the
  1.2.x branch in sync with the trunk. Due to the instability of the
  trunk, some patches can not be ported and tested easily from 1.2.x
  branch.

  We need to set up a feature list for 1.4.

* Lenya now has Gump integration, although currently against the
  Cocoon trunk. Efforts to enable a Cocoon 2.1 Gump run have so far
  received no interest from the Cocoon community.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

NO SUBMITTED REPORT.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

Nothing much happening on that track.  No new mod_perl 1.x releases
since the last report.

mod_perl 1.0 is currently on CVS.

--- mod_perl 2.0 --

The mod_perl 1.99 series is a development track designed to become
mod_perl 2.0; it works with httpd 2.0.x and 2.1.x

Recent releases:

  1.99_18  - December 12, 2004 (RC1)
  1.99_19  - December 23, 2004 (RC2)
  1.999_20 - January 5, 2005   (RC3)

several mod_perl repositories, including modperl-2.0 and modperl-docs
were converted from CVS to SVN during and immediately following
ApacheCon.

--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications.

Recent releases:

  1.16 - November 9, 2004
  1.17 - December 11, 2004
  1.18 - December 23, 2004
  1.19 - January 5, 2005

httpd-test, the parent repository for Apache-Test, was also was
converted from CVS to SVN this quarter.

The httpd and perl pmcs jointly decided to move control of the
Apache-Test codebase back under control of the perl pmc, leaving the
other parts of httpd-test (flood, specweb, and the perl-framework)
remain with the httpd pmc.

Apache-Test was migrated to its new home,
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/perl/Apache-Test on February 8, 2005.
additionally, two new mailing lists were created -
test-dev@perl.apache.org and test-commits@perl.apache.org - and a
request was made to marc.theaimsgroup.com to begin archiving these
lists.

-- Development --

Development on mod_perl 2.0 and Apache-Test is moving at a healthy
pace.  Official mod_perl 2.0 release candidates (RC1, RC2, and RC3)
were released during late December and early January.

-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.

Both the user (modperl@perl.apache.org) and development
(dev@perl.apache.org) mailing lists got a little heated in late
December and early January over a specific behavioral aspect of
mod_perl 2.0.  in an attempt to settle the community down, the
mod_perl PMC prepared a written statement explaining our commitment to
mod_perl users and promising a well vetted resolution.

http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=apache-modperl&m=110494451222003&w=2

-- PMC --

Doug MacEachern officially decided to step down as PMC chair.  On
December 17, 2004 a resoltion was sent to the Board to certify
Geoffrey Young as the new chair, which was approved on January 19,
2005.  it is impossible to fully recognize the value of the
contributions Doug made to mod_perl over the years - thanks Doug!

Additionally, Joe Schaefer was voted in as a new PMC member on January
3, 2005, and Stas Bekman resigned from the PMC on January 11, 2005.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache XML Project

Overview
========

For the XML project it's been a quiet quarter.  Xerces is ready to
become a TLP and is putting a resolution to the board for this
quarter. That will be almost the last of the major developments (other
than AxKit) in the XML project to be proposed for TLP status.  A big
(and long) effort, and a huge thanks from the PMC (and particularly
myself!) to all who have done the extra yards to make it happen.

The XML project itself now needs to have an internal review to
determine where to from here.  The web site has been very quiet, and
the PMC list similarly - most activity has now moved to the PMC lists
for the new projects.  In addition, we need to work out what makes
most sense for the "federation".

Commons
=======

The only major action currently is waiting for Sun to complete legal
review of their expected donation of the JAXP 1.3 sources (note: these
are upgrades to existing JAXP sources donated in the past, and should
not need incubation).  This is expected to come through, but has been
slow getting the details finished.  The Xerces and Xalan teams are
both eagerly awaiting this JAXP 1.3 code so they can update to the
latest specs.

Xerces-J
========

In November, Xerces committers and members of the XML PMC voted to
transform Xerces into a top-level project.  Initial PMC members for
the Xerces top-level project were also selected.  This will be on the
agenda of the February Board meeting.

The community is still awaiting donations for JAXP 1.3 from Sun
Microsystems.  It is hoped that any remaining hurdles for the software
grant will be resolved between Apache and Sun soon, so that the
integration work can begin followed soon after by the release of
Xerces-J 2.7.0.

Xerces-C
========

There is much current discussion around the content of the next
Xerces-C release.  It looks like the build system will be modernized,
and various API additions/updates may also be carried out.  Consensus
hasn't yet been reached about whether the release will be Xerces-C
2.7.0 or 3.0.  A vote has also been underway to add a new committer,
Vitaly Prapirny; this idea has met with widespread support and the
vote will be formally concluded shortly.

Xerces-P
========

I've been seeking some kind of commercial sponsorship to continue my
Xerces work, and I'm very close to actually getting some - we'll see
how it turns out.

There is a large memory leak issue that is requiring a restructuring
of the code base, and because Xerces-P is going to be folded in as a
sub-project of Xerces-C after the TLP transition, I've been holding
off major changes.

Axkit
=====

The AxKit web server is now hosted in a data center (not Apache's own,
but it's secure and free), meaning that downtime is much less likely.
Unfortunately the migration was forced due to downtime at the last
hosting place, so we were down for about a week.

Most work is currently occurring in other people's projects (such as
CMSs) outside of the AxKit project, but things are still healthy.

Xindice
=======

No activity in the past quarter

XML-Security
============

A new committer - Milan Tomic - has been voted in, and will be
assisting in the C++ version of the library.  The Java library is
heading towards a 1.2.1 release with a number of bug fixes.  The C++
team has been involved in interoperability testing with the XKMS
effort at W3C, and the C++ library now supports a complete X-KISS
message set that has been shown to be interoperable with other XKMS
libraries.  This code will be released in the 1.2 version.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments:

We have created and voted for a charter for the project. Please find it here:
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/xmlgraphics/site/src/documentation/content/xdocs/charter.xml
(Results: 9 +1)

Most infrastructure for the project is now set up. We're now going forward with
separating common components (between Batik and FOP) and making parts of FOP
available to the Batik team so they can help maintain it (PDF/PS Transcoders).


Issues needing attention:

The Xerces people have a project charter draft which contains special
sections about handling contributions. We mostly copied from their
charter draft but removed these sections. We think this is something
which has to be defined and communicated at ASF-level.


Batik:

No new releases, however the number of bug fixes is reaching critical
mass so a bug fix release (1.5.2) is likely in the near future.

Initial support for SVG 1.2 has been added to Batik (only activated for
documents that indicate 'version="1.2"').

Several Memory leaks have been fixed.

Significant (10x!) performance increase for Mac OS X, really makes Batik
useful on Macintosh for the first time.


FOP:

No releases. However, we will likely be able to start releasing again
this year with the current rate of progress.

The new layout engine is constantly growing and improving:

- Creation of a regression test framework and tests.
- Improvements in line and block layout.
- Full support for Block Containers has been implemented.
- Markers have been fully implemented.
- Text-decoration has been fully implemented.
- Background images has been implemented.
- List labels and indenting has been implemented.
- The XSL 1.1 working draft is also being looked at and the new bookmark
  feature has already been implemented replacing a FOP custom extension.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

o New projects

The first new subproject is called maven-archetype which is a tool
which encapsulates a template for a given type of project, it uses
Velocity to parameterize the output. The second a subproject is a
reporting API which will be used in maven2 and maven1.

o New PMC members

No new PMC members

o New Committers

No new committers

Alex Karasulu for maven-plugins

o Goings on

Maven 1.0.2 was released and we're working on 1.1 which will be the
first maven1 release to incorporate components that we made for
maven2.  Maven 1.1.x will use Maven SCM which is our general SCM
abstraction and Maven Wagon which is our general transport
abstraction.

That's about it.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

Xalan

A new Xalan charter has been worked on during the quarter, undergoing
a number of drafts. The new charter is in a form that is being voted
on.

Until the new charter is approved, we are running under the XML
charter, which requires a unanimous vote by the PMC members on changes
to the charter, and which specifies no time limits on the voting.

The major changes in the proposed charter from the existing XML
mission:
- unanimous votes are replace by a majority vote with no opposing
  votes
- two week time limit on voting on issues
- tightened up Apache licensing diligence by Xalan PMC, including CLA
  or CCLA
- applied patches don't need to be voted on, but need to be reviewed
  by one other committer.

Also, Xalan-C and Xalan-J are presumed as subprojects of Xalan in the
new charter.  They already have their own releases, own webpages, sets
of developers and mailing lists, so they are defacto subprojects.

Xalan-C

Version 1.9 of Xalan-C was released on December 21, 2004.  The major
changes were:
- added support for Microsoft Studio .NET V7.1
- upgraded from using Xerces-C 2.5 to Xerces-C 2.6 as the associated
  XML parser
- over 50 bugs fixed (see http://xml.apache.org/xalan-c/whatsnew.html)
- pluggable memory management allowing users control over memory
  allocation for performance

Xalan-J

The Xalan-J developers are recognizing that it about a year since the
last release of 2.6.0 and it is time for new release, either 2.6.1 or
2.7.0. One issue holding up the new release is that the JAXP 1.3
implementation, which was expected to be donated by Sun microsystems
has not been donated.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Public Relations Committee

We've worked out a miscommunication with Jinx Hackware and are in the
middle of signing a new 2 year contract with them.  They sent us a
check for $1,000.00 of our profits from selling ASF T-Shirts.  As of
22 Feb 2005, our affiliate account balance at Jinx is $335.41.

We have received a Google Grant award and are in the process of using
the grant to setup one or more AdWords campaigns to garner more
recognition for the ASF on Google.

We've finally received money from the Car Program LLC for the car that
Roy donated.

Ken Coar's "Rodent's Cache", a licensee selling ASF merchandise,
earned $19.03 in licensing fees for the last quarter of 2004.

After a lot of back and forth, the PRC finally submitted a vendor's
contract to USC in order to permit them to cut a check in the amount
of $2,350.00 to us (donations from their Open Source study).

We sent a kindly worded cease and desist letter to Cryptocard on 18
Feb 2005 asking that they stop using the feather by March 1.  We
haven't heard back from them yet, and the feather remains on their
website as of 22 Feb 2005.

We continue to be short on resources as PRC members are generally
pretty busy these days.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Conferences Committee

The call for proposals for ApacheCon Europe 2005 opened in January,
and to date 41 proposals have been submitted.  We should see several
upticks as reminders are sent out.

The venue for Stuttgart is being provided gratis by the regional
government.  S&S Verlag is taking responsibility for several graphic
design issues and is handling PR in Europe.

We have not ruled out the possibility of a U.S. conference in 2005;
one thing being considered is to arrange for a one-off contract with a
producer who will be able to work with the favourable venue
arrangements Security Travel was obtaining, and issuing an RFP for a
longer-term repeat contract.
-------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the February 23, 2005 board meeting.
