                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                          September 29, 2005


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at
    10:03 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net will be used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Stefano Mazzocchi
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Ben Laurie

    Guests:

        Geir Magnusson Jr.

 3. Special Orders

    A. Spending Resolution
    
      WHEREAS, the Treasurer has collected and reviewed requests from
      Officers for financial expenses necessary for the continued
      operation of the Foundation; and
      
      WHEREAS, The Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
      interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
      purpose to authorize the following financial expenses.
      
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the sum of $5,000 be and
      hereby is authorized to be expensed by the Vice President,
      Conference Planning for the purposes of face-to-face Conference
      Committee meetings as needed; and be it further
      
      RESOLVED, that the sum of $2,000 be and hereby is authorized to be
      expensed by the President to cover expenses related to the
      Infrastructure Search Committee; and be it further
      
      RESOLVED, that the sum of $2,000 be and hereby is authorized to be
      expensed by the Treasurer to cover expenses related to the filing
      of 2004 year tax returns; and be it further
      
      RESOLVED, that the sum of $1,500 be and hereby is authorized to be
      expensed by any Officers to cover expenses related to shipping
      and courier services; and be it further
      
      RESOLVED, that the sum of $750 be and hereby is authorized to be
      expensed by the Treasurer to cover expenses related to banking
      fees; and be it further
      
      RESOLVED, that the sum of $500 be and hereby is authorized to be
      expensed by Directors to cover expenses related to board
      conference calls.

      The above Spending Resolution (Special Order 3-A) was
      approved by unanimous vote.
 
 4. Unfinished Business

    A. Apache Geronimo project

       There was continued significant discussion on what actions,
       if any, the board should take regarding the problems within
       the Geronimo PMC. The general consensus was that a change
       of PMC chair was likely required. There was discussion on
       who should make the selection, and, assuming it was the
       board's decision, who the board would appoint. Candidates
       and their appearances of conflicts-of-interest were
       noted and discussed. Methods of "empowering" the PMC
       were also discussed.
       
    B. Budget

       https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/Finances/2005-budget.txt

       The general consensus was that the focus should be on
       the creation of a good, solid 2006 budget, that could
       be authorized in January 2006.
       
    C. Retain counsel to review our 501(c)3 legal status

       Justin was to draft and submit a Letter Of Engagement to
       SFLC (NOTE: Need correct contact here). It was noted that
       all work was to be pro bono.

 5. New Business

    Jim has an application for D&O Insurance that needs to be
    signed by either Greg or Sander. Jim was to send to Greg,
    who would sign and then return to Jim via the new ASF
    FedEx account. It was noted that this was simply an application,
    to obtain pricing. Jim is still negotiating with other
    insurance brokers as well.

 6. Announcements

    None.
    
 7. Adjournment

    None.

 8. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 PDT -0700. Adjourned at 12:09.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the September 29, 2005 board meeting.
