                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                             May 18, 2005


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at
    10:05 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Stefano Mazzocchi
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Brian Behlendorf

    Guests:

        Ted Husted

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of April 27, 2005

       SVN - foundation/board/board_minutes_2005_04_27.txt

       Minutes board/board_minutes_2005_04_27.txt approved by
       general consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       The Membership has been very active over the past few weeks, in
       preparation for the upcoming Members meeting. A lot of
       discussion has gone into what the Members would like to see
       from the people elected to the Board, particularly in terms of
       their views on hiring an Executive Director (and/or other staff
       positions at the ASF). This also led into a long discussion of
       an ED role, its impact on the ASF, and what Members would like
       to do about it. This involvement and discussion among the
       Members is refereshing, as the mailing list is usually quite
       idle.
       
       A lot of discussion also occurred around licensing for the new
       Apache Harmony project, particularly with respect to the GNU
       Classpath project. The topics varied, but a lot of it came down
       to a couple questions: what do we want from Harmony [in terms
       of licensing], and how does Classpath satisfy (or not) those
       needs? The Harmony team has moved those discussions to the
       development list to refine the answers before seeking further
       input on licensing from the Board and our legal team.

    B. President [Dirk]

       Mainly been tracing CCN/ECN etc numbers - turns out
       to be a much thornier issue than expected and one which
       we may need to address in earnest. Also preparing for
       the budget discussions - finding out about admin rates.

       There was discussion regarding determination of which
       s/w products may require some level of export control.
       Dirk noted that in most cases, it is sufficient that
       the interested gov't entities be informed of the
       location of the source code repositories in order to
       be compliant.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

        No report.

        Dirk has the Action Item to contact Chuck regarding
        the status of the ASF financial records as well as
        Chuck's involvement as Treasurer.
        
    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       On the mailing list, we approved the scheduling of the annual
       ASF Members Meeting for May 24, 2005 16:00 UTC. Email was
       sent to the member's list announcing the meeting,
       reminding members about proxies and member/board
       nominations.

       A SVN directory was created for the event:
          svn:foundation/Meetings/20050524

       The attendance list for all previous ASF member meetings
       on which we have records was updated and added to SVN
       (svn:foundation/Meetings/attendance.txt). From that list, I
       created a short-list of members with the following
       criteria:

         a: Did not attend the last 3 meetings
             - or -
         b: Of the last 4+ meetings, attended less than 50%
            - or -
         c: Has not attended a meeting since election to the ASF
            membership.

       All members on that list were contacted via Email alerting
       them to the fact, and asking whether they wished to request
       Emeritus status or if they wished to remain active members.
       Those who did not respond will be contacted via the phone to
       follow up.

       Jim agreed to look into whether we need some sort of
       official Emeritus policy, and whether it makes sense
       to add that to the member's meeting agenda.
       
       Jim has the Action Item to "come up" with an
       Emeritus Policy.
       
 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill]

       See Attachment A

       Apache Ant Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    B. Apache Cocoon Project [Sylvain Wallez]

       See Attachment B

       The Rhino Licensing issue was noted in the report.
       Stefano has the Action Item to oversee the Rhino
       licensing questions and to distribute his findings to
       the respective PMCs.
       
       Apache Cocoon Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    C. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley]

       See Attachment C

       The Clarification Request regarding the Copyright
       line was noted in the report. Ken has the
       Action Item to obtain the definitive answer from
       our legal representatives, obtain closure on this
       issue, and report his results to the board and the
       Forest PMC.
       
       Apache Forrest Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    D. Apache HTTP Server Project [Sander Striker]

       See Attachment D

       Apache HTTP Server Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    E. Apache Lenya Project [Rolf Kulemann]

       See Attachment E

       Apache Lenya Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    F. Apache Logging Project [Ceki Gülcü <]

       See Attachment F

       There was no report provided or submitted.

    G. Apache Perl Project [Geoffrey Young]

       See Attachment G

       Apache Perl Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    H. Apache Xalan Project [Brian Minchau]

       See Attachment H

       The board noted that Xalan-J is holding monthly telecons.
       Although the board realizes that sometimes such telecons
       are requested, they should not become a prime mechanism
       for development, due to their exclusionary nature.
       Sam has the Action Item to contact the Xalan-J
       team relay the board's concern as well as ask why they
       feel the need to hold these calls.
       
       Apache Xalan Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    I. Apache Xerces Project [Gareth Reakes]

       See Attachment I

       Apache Xerces Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    J. Apache XML Project [Berin Lautenbach]

       See Attachment J

       Apache XML Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    K. Apache XML Graphics Project [Jeremias Maerki]

       See Attachment K

       Apache XML Graphics Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    L. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu]

       See Attachment L

       Apache Directory Project report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

    M. Apache Public Relations [Brian W. Fitzpatrick]

       See Attachment M

       Apache Public Relations report approved as submitted by
       general consent.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache Tomcat Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
       purpose to establish a Project Management Committee charged with
       the creation and maintenance of open-source software related to
       the implementation of the Java Servlet and Java Server Pages
       specifications, for distribution at no charge to the public.
 
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Tomcat PMC", be and
       hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and
       be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the Apache Tomcat PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software related
       to creation and maintenance of open-source software related to
       the implementation of the Java Servlet and Java Server Pages
       specifications based on software licensed to the Foundation; and
       be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Tomcat" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve
       at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Tomcat PMC, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility of
       the Apache Tomcat PMC; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Tomcat PMC:
 
         Jean-Francois Arcand (jfarcand@apache.org)
         Bill Barker (billbarker@apache.org)
         Kin-man Chung (kinman@apache.org)
         Jean-Frederic Clere (jfclere@apache.org)
         Ian Darwin (idarwin@apache.org)
         Tim Funk (funkman@apache.org)
         Henri Gomez (hgomez@apache.org)
         Filip Hanik (fhanik@apache.org)
         Larry Isaacs (larryi@apache.org)
         Jim Jagielski (jim@apache.org)
         Jan Luehe (luehe@apache.org)
         Costin Manolache (costin@apache.org)
         Remy Maucherat (remm@apache.org)
         Kurt Miller (truk@apache.org)
         Glenn Nielsen (glenn@apache.org)
         Amy Roh (amyroh@apache.org)
         Peter Rossbach (pero@apache.org)
         Yoav Shapira (yoavs@apache.org)
         Mark Thomas (markt@apache.org)
         Mladen Turk (mturk@apache.org)
         Keith Wannamaker (keith@apache.org)
 
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Remy Maucherat be
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Tomcat, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
       successor is appointed; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Tomcat PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Tomcat Project; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Tomcat PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Jakarta PMC Tomcat subproject; and be it further
 
       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Jakarta
       Tomcat sub-project and encumbered upon the Apache Jakarta PMC
       are hereafter discharged.

     There was significant debate over the creation of the
     Tomcat Project, not so much regarding the project itself,
     but in the requested PMC Chair.
     
     By a vote of 5 YEA and 3 NAY, Special Order A, a Resolution to
     Establish the Apache Tomcat Project, was approved.
     
     Stefeno has the Action Item to create a list of expectations
     for the new Tomcat PMC Chair.
     
    B. Estalish the Apache iBATIS Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to moving data between objects
       and a database by mapping objects to SQL statements and 
       stored procedures, for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache iBATIS PMC", be and
       hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and
       be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache iBATIS PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
       related to the iBATIS DataMapper, based on software licensed to
       the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache iBATIS" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve
       at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache iBATIS PMC, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache iBATIS PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache iBATIS PMC:

         Clinton Begin          (cbegin@apache.org)
         Gilles Bayon           (gbayon@apache.org)
         Ted Husted             (husted@apache.org)
         Brandon Goodin      (bgoodin@apache.org)
         Larry Meadors         (lmeadors@apache.org)
         Roberto Rabe          (roberto@apache.org)
         
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Ted Husted be
       and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       iBATIS, to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation
       until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache iBATIS PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache iBATIS Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache iBATIS PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the migration and rationalization of the incubating
       Apache iBATIS project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the incubating
       Apache iBATIS project encumbered upon the incubator PMC be
       hereafter discharged.

     By unanimous vote, Special Order B, a Resolution to
     Establish the Apache iBATIS Project, was approved.

    C. Change of Logging Services PMC Chair
    
       As Ceki Gülcü < resigned from the Logging Services PMC Chair,
       the Logging Services PMC has voted to propose Mark Womack as
       the new Logging Services PMC Chair.  We offer the following
       resolution for board approval:
    
       WHEREAS, the membership of the Apache Logging Services Project
       Management Committee (PMC) have recommended Mark Womack to
       serve as chairman of the Apache Logging Services PMC; and
    
       WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Apache
       Logging Services PMC, Ceki Gülcü <, has resigned his position
       as Vice President, Apache Logging Services, in favor of Mark
       Womack's appointment to that position.
    
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mark Womack be and hereby
       is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Logging
       Services, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

     By unanimous vote, Special Order C, a Resolution to
     Change of Logging Services PMC Chair, was approved.

    D. Change of Lenya PMC Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Rolf Kulemann from the office of Vice President, Apache Lenya;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Rolf Kulemann is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of
       Vice President, Apache Lenya, and

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Gregor J. Rothfuss be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Lenya, to
       serve in accordance with and  subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
       appointed.

     By vote of 7 YEA and 1 ABSTAIN, Special Order B, a Resolution to
     Change of Lenya PMC Chair, was approved.

 7. Discussion Items
    
    Geir asked the board if it had any concerns regarding his
    continued position as the ASF contact for the JCP. Geir's
    concern was mostly if his change in employment association
    would cause the ASF any undue concern.
    
    The board expressed its confidence that Geir could,
    and should, continue in his JCP role, assuming that he has
    sufficient time to adequately fulfill those duties.
    
 8. Unfinished Business

 9. New Business

10. Announcements

11. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PDT -0700. Adjourned at
    12:09.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

Status Report for the Ant project

o Ant 1.6.3

Ant 1.6.3 was released on April 28 2005

A large number of changes were included in the release although most
are small in nature. Subsequent to release a few bugs have been found,
one of which affects operation of javah. This will require a follow-up
Ant 1.6.4 release.

o Ant 1.7

Ant 1.7 development continues in the CVS head

o Antlibs Subproject

We have created an Antlibs subproject. The rationale is to separate 
groups of tasks, which are currently included with the main Ant core and 
release these separately. This approach will allow for task updates to 
have much shorter release cycles than the Ant core, whose release cycles 
have been fairly long to date. By reducing the core size, it would also 
have the advantage of reducing the core release cycle as well.

o Subversion conversion

An Ant subversion repository has been set up by infrastructure at our 
request. We have not yet converted the main Ant repository to subversion 
as we did not want to overlap that process with the 1.6.3 release. Ant 
1.7 will be released from subversion and we expect the conversion to 
occur once the release issues of the current Ant 1.6.x releases settle down.

The subversion repository will host code for the Antlibs subproject we 
have created.

o Antidote

Antidote was an Ant GUI project which has been in Ant's CVS for a long 
time now. It has never been able to attract sufficient critical mass to 
ensure its development was sustainable. As Ant support is provided in 
all main Java IDEs, we decided to retire the Antidote subproject.

o Legal Issues

None.

o Committers

We have made a number of inactive committers emeritus. we have recently 
added Alexey Solofnenko as a committer.

Magesh Umasankar has retired from the PMC due to time constraints.

o Community

Community is healthy - no issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Community:
- Cocoon 2.1.7 was released in March. This is a maintainance release
  while development of version 2.2 is going on.
- we have one new committer, Alfred Nathaniel
- two committers joined the PMC, Leszek Gawron and Ralph Goers

Legal:
The XML graphics PMC raised our attention on Rhino which they also
use, as its licence changed from MPL to NPL last october. We're
wondering about potential problems of an NPL-licenced library in our
svn repository, and asked legal-discuss for some advice about this,
with no answer up to now.

Misc:
A new project is being set up at Eclipse to build an IDE for Cocoon
[1], and a number of Cocoon devs have expressed their interest in
participating. This will hopefully increase the user base by making
Cocoon easier to use.

[1] http://www.eclipse.org/proposals/eclipse-lepido/


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Issues needing board attention
------------------------------
Last quarter i asked that the board clarify the change to the
copyright line in each source file (added "or its licensors, as
applicable").  The board did discuss this, but there was no outcome,
so mentioned here again.

New committers and new PMC members
----------------------------------
Two new people were added to the PMC. They are also new committers.
Johannes Schaefer josch@apache.org
Ferdinand Soethe ferdinand@apache.org

General status
--------------
* Some of our older committers/PMC have gone quiet for a while.  That
  is not a problem at this stage, we expect people to come and go.
  However with a small committer base in a new project, we need to pay
  attention.

* Two of our committers are presenting a Tutorial at ApacheCon EU.
  This is the first ever for Forrest. We seek new developers and
  technical users.

Issues still to be dealt with by the Forrest PMC
------------------------------------------------
* Move our Jira issue tracker to apache.org from cocoondev.org
  This had been stalled, but is starting to happen again.

* Demonstration forrestbot on brutus needs to move to an appropriate
  home.

Progress of the project
-----------------------
* Steadily working on 0.7-dev and getting very close to its release.

* Good work done on the new plugin system.

* Started planning our use of the soon-to-be available server zone.

General observations during last quarter
----------------------------------------
* A "Legal FAQ" is required at the top-level ASF website to assist
  all committers/PMCs.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

Activity is picking up again.  We are happy to say we have
invited a number of new committers into apreq, docs, httpd
and mod_python.

There were a couple of releases: libapreq2-2.05-dev and
httpd-2.0.54.

There is increased interest in branching httpd 2.1 and working
towards an initial 2.2 release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Community:
- Lenya 1.2.3 was released in May. Lenya has adopted a 2-monthly
  release cycle, which has worked well.
- work has begun on a 1.4alpha1 release
- we have one new committer, Jann Forrer
- two committers joined the PMC, Torsten Schlabach and J. Wolfgang
  Kaltz.
- a new PMC chair is currently being elected. Result should be
  available next week.

Misc:
Interest in Lenya is growing nicely, both on the user and developer
lists [1], the number of submitted patches, and wiki activity.

[1] http://people.apache.org/~coar/mlists.html#lenya.apache.org


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Logging Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

Nothing much happening on that track.  No new mod_perl 1.x releases
since the last report.

mod_perl 1.0 is currently on CVS.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

The mod_perl 1.99 series is a development track designed to become
mod_perl 2.0; it works with httpd 2.0.x and 2.1.x

Recent releases:

  1.999_22 - April 14, 2005   (RC5)
  1.999_23 - May 4, 2005      (RC6)


--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications.

Recent releases:

  1.21 - March 23, 2005
  1.22 - April 14, 2005
  1.23 - May 4, 2005


-- Development --

Development on mod_perl 2.0 and Apache-Test is moving at a healthy
pace.  Two mod_perl 2.0 release candidates (RC5 and RC6) 
were released during this quarter, bringing us ever closer to
an official 2.0 designation.

RC5 was an especially important milestone, as it included
the implementation of namespace issues that were the subject
of heated discussions last quarter.  Due to outstanding development,
documentation, and mailing list efforts the migration to the
new namespace went off with very little user-land confusion 
or complaints - far less than I think any of the active
developers anticipated.

Development is, once again, moving forward, proving that
mod_perl is an extremely healthy and uncommonly resilient
community within the ASF.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.

As mentioned in the Development section, the major issue
facing our userbase this quarter seems to have been met with
little confusion or complaints.  Most users who have adopted
the namespace-changing release (RC5) have reported minimal development
efforts required to upgrade, and have been very helpful to
the rest of the user community.


-- PMC --

no new pmc activity of note.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

Xalan-C
=======
XML 1.1 support has been implemented by Xalan-C.

Redesign of XML serialization both for code simplification and for
performance is underway.

Support has been added for:
- Linux/XLC compiler
- gcc 3.4

Although this work is available in the latest development version
in CVS, it is awaiting the next Xalan-C release.

Xalan-J
=======

A monthly tele-conference (first Tuesday of each month) has been
started and has had a number of sessions. It is
open to all active Xalan-J committers to discuss JIRA issues,
and find volunteers to fix bugs. The JIRA issue database has been
kept up to date with the group's decisions.

A new Xalan-J 2.7 release, with a tentative release date in
mid July 2005 was approved by the Xalan PMC. Due to the JAXP 1.3
donation from Sun, and because Xerces is heading towards a 2.7
release that includes support for JAXP 1.3, the Xalan PMC voted
to have a new release a few weeks after Xerces tentative release
date. This gives Xalan-J time to make any adjustments to changes
in Xerces.

The future Xalan-J 2.7 release will contain support for:
- JAXP 1.3
- XML 1.1 (already committed to the development code base)

Morris Kwan, a Xalan-J committer, has volunteered to do the
bulk of the work needed for Xalan-J to support JAXP 1.3
(thanks Morris!).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Generally, we're adjusting well to life as a TLP.  Mailing lists and
Jira have been sorted out to point at the new xerces.apache.org
domain.  We still need to get the website sorted out, and could
probably use some help/guidance on how to do this (I'm not certain
whether Gareth has already inquired on infrastructure@).

Reports for the three subprojects:

Xerces-C:

There has been a fair amount of discussion on what features the next
Xerces-C release will have, and whether it should be called 3.0 or
2.7.  At the moment, a lot of activity is underway in terms of fixing
bugs, and we have volunteers for modernizing the Xerces-C build system
(although this hasn't hit the repository yet).  Other possible
features are DOM level 3 updates and XInclude support, but development
hasn't started publicly on these fronts yet.  Much is waiting on the
migration to SVN, for which we have a volunteer but which has been
delayed as the volunteer tries to free up some time.  We recently
added two new committers: Vitaly Prapirny and David Bertoni.

Xerces-J:

In early April, Sun Microsystems completed their donation of the JAXP
1.3 APIs and RI to Apache. The Xerces-J committers have spent a fair
amount of time evaluating the donation to determine what work needs to
be done to integrate the Xerces portions back into the main
development line. This evaluation was recently completed and a release
date of June 24th was proposed for Xerces 2.7.0. Volunteers have come
forward to take part in the integration effort which is already
underway. An up to date version of the release plan is available here
[*]. Following the release of Xerces 2.7.0 we plan to migrate Xerces-J
from CVS to SVN.

[*] http://cvs.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/*checkout*/xml-xerces/java/Xerces2.7.0-REL_PLAN.html?content-type=text%2Fplain

Xerces-P:

The Xerces-P project has had very little activity since the 2.5
release.

A very serious memory leak was discovered, in the entire 2.0 series,
and it was determined that fixing the leak would require a major
rewrite of how the Xerces-C library was wrapped by Perl. At this time,
the discussion of how to include Xerces-P as a sub-project of Xerces-C
had also begun, together with the discussion of making Xerces a TLP.
Just recently, a commercial organization has agreed to fund the
development of the Xerces-P-2.6 release to eliminate the memory leak,
and the release is scheduled for end of May.

Now that the Xerces TLP transition has been made it would be fruitful
to begin discussing how to make Xerces-P a sub-project of Xerces-C.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache XML Project

Overview
========

As the project gets smaller, the quarters get quieter.  Xerces is now
a TLP in its own right.  The only remaining sub projects that *may*
look to TLP status are xml-security and AxKit.

The PMC and general lists have been very quiet.  Everyone has been too
busy on other things to look at how to move the overall federation
forward, however this needs to start happening, and will be a focus
for the chair in the coming quarter.

Commons
=======

Main news from Commons is the JAXP 1.3 donation from Sun has gone
ahead, and the code has been imported in the repository.  Lots of good
work from a number of parties to work through this.

Axkit
=====

AxKit has just taken a vote for its next release, and is planning to
make this happen.  Preparation for moving to SVN has also now
commenced.

Finally, AxKit is preparing to migrate its mailing lists back into a
single list.  The volumes are too low to warrant maintaining the
current dev/user split.

Xindice
=======

Some activity on the user list, however no development activity.

XML-Security
============

Version 1.2.1 for the Java library was released in this quarter.  This
included a number of bug fixes from 1.2.  The C++ library is preparing
for a 1.2 release (vote currently being undertaken) which will include
the new XKMS message handling code.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments
------------------

The project has voted to migrate to SVN after the Batik 1.6 release.
We'll do this quite soon now. This will finally let us create the space
for commonly used components between FOP and Batik.

We've been talking to the Cocoon PMC about Mozilla's Rhino package
(which Batik uses and distributes). There's some confusion concerning
the licence(s). So far, this is still a pending issue.

Batik
-------

Batik released version 1.6. The main improvements, as indicated in the
last report, are SVG 1.2 support and massive speed improvements on
MacOSX. Besides that there were lots of bugfixes and improvements.

FOP
-----

No releases.

We've rewritten the whole page-breaking mechanism which allows us to
finally implement the long-missing keep properties among other things.
It's a very difficult matter (especially around tables) but there's
pretty good progress. 

-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Some very positive things to note otherwise all is well ...


Website Revamped
-------------------------

Because we were planning for our first release out of the incubator we
really wanted all the peices of the server to meet some fundamental
requirements on the new TLP's website.  This is in respect to the
documentation obviously but specifically we cleaned up several links,
comments, old materials as well as the expected references to the
incubator.


ApacheDS 0.9 Released
-------------------------------

Perhaps the most significant news is another release of ApacheDS
(version 0.9).  The 0.9 series of releases are experimental feature
releases.  This one includes the Kerberos plugin which can be enabled
to make the server service Kerberos 5 requests with users backed in
the directory.  This is all in addition to the existing LDAP support.
Other releases will come rapidly after this one to include an NTP, and
DNS plugin.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Public Relations Committee


Cryptocard complied with our informal C&D regarding their use of the
feather logo, removing it from their website and print collateral.
Logo design and implementation still stalled pending development of
logo guidelines.  

We've improved our response time to standard press requests, and Ted
Husted has setup a prototype "online bookstore" with the intention
of bringing in affilliate revenue from various booksellers, such as
Amazon.

We received a Google Grant for use towards Google Adwords
advertising.  We set this up and informed PMCs about its existence,
but most PMCs haven't taken advantage of it.

Ben Hyde and Jim Jagielski are talking with O'Reilly Media regarding
a possible collaboration between the ASF and O'Reilly.

Covalent indicated a desire to grant "scholarships" in the ASF's
name, and there's been some discussion about it.

In recent weeks, interest in formulating a preliminary budget has
reawakened and we've seen some progress on that.

The PRC continues to be short on resources as PRC members are
generally pretty busy these days.


------------------------------------------------------
End of Minutes for the May 18, 2005 board meeting.
