                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             May 24, 2006


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman at 10:09.  The meeting was held
    teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693
            Passcode/ConfID : 2345502

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Stefano Mazzocchi (arrived 10:22)
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Justin Erenkrantz
        Ben Laurie

    Guests:

        Cliff Schmidt
        Henri Yandell

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes in Subversion are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    Append the minutes URIs to that to access them through the Web.

    A. The meeting of April 26, 2006

       SVN - board/board_minutes_2006_04_26.txt

       Approved by General Consent

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg reported that the board expressed its support for
       Ken's position regarding the changes and actions taken
       by Ken regarding the Geronimo PMC (change to RTC and
       suspension of PMC member status for many people). Greg also
       reported that it appears that there are 27 Google Summer Of
       Code projects for the ASF.

    B. President [Sander]

       Contracts.  The SFLC has been helpful with reviewing and commenting
       on the contract with OSU OSL.  A few requests for change have been
       done, and currently the contract is under review of the lawyer at
       OSU OSL.
       Furthermore a consulting contract with Joe Schaeffer has been
       written.  It has been mailed to Joe, but has not arrived as of
       yet.

       Infrastructure.  The infrastructure is running smoother now we
       have full time staff available to take care of our systems.  Do
       note that it has been very busy due to several (hardware) failures.
       
       Donations.  Sun donated a T2000, which has been shipped to OSU OSL.
       A support contract is close to being finalized, which would finally
       give us access to the patches needed for our v40z.  Ask.com has kindly
       donated 2 Dell PowerVaults with 14x146GB of storage.  This donation
       has also been shipped to OSU OSL.

       Furthermore, additional hardware has been bought to refit the
       IBM x345 servers.  In total $3600 was spent.


    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       Our fiscal year is now closed and we're now in 2006-2007FY.

       I have checked in initial drafts of the 2005-2006FY tax returns
       of the 990 and 990 Schedule A into:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/financials/Taxes/
          (Director access only)

       Most of the financial information has been placed into these
       files, but a complete list of officers/addresses/time spent is
       still required. There are also a few supporting documents that I
       will have to prepare according to the IRS submission guidelines.
       I also have to review the numbers and instructions again before
       submission, but what is there represents my first-cut pass.

       I will be focusing on having a next draft of the returns in time
       for the Annual Members meeting in mid-June for members to review.

       To recap, the returns are due to the IRS by September 15th - 15th
       day of the 5th month after the organization's accounting period
       ends. [990 Instructions Sec. H; pg. 6]

       Current Balances as of 5/17/2006:

       Paypal              $    930.62 (+$   493.23)
       Checking            $ 13,797.46 (-$ 3,478.29)
       Savings             $226,053.56 (+$   382.61)
       Total               $240,781.64 (-$ 2,602.45)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       The big news is that the ASF Members Meeting has been set for
       June 13, 2006 16:00 UTC, via Email notice to all members
       (Message-ID: <0902F4D8-F82F-4F69-B771-7EEF677240AA@jaguNET.com>
       on May 8, 2006). A call for new member nominations and board
       nominations also went out, and we are seeing some trickles
       of nominations coming in.

       I am in the process of obtaining D&O Insurance info
       from AON Consulting, as well as still working the
       St. Paul/Travelers option.

       I sent a draft "proposal" to the board list regarding a
       new policy regarding the acceptance of *CLAs and software
       grants, after discussion with Cliff and our legal advisors.
       This new policy will allow for scanned images of signed
       documents in addition to postal-mailed originals and
       FAXed documents. The scanned image Emails will need to
       be sent to the secretary@ and legal-archive@ Email
       addresses. The draft policy was sent on May 18, 2006
       (Message-ID: <37B9829A-F14E-4B8C-8EA8-BDFC3766DCED@jaguNET.com>).
       Some further clarification was requested, and the policy statement
       will be refined to add such clarification.

       As always, there has been the steady receipt of iCLAs, CCLAs
       and grants. We have received no correspondance requiring
       board attention.
       
    E. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

        LICENSING HEADER: I have submitted a resolution for the
            Board's consideration to set a new policy for source
            code headers.  In brief, the headers will no longer 
            include any copyright notice, only a licensing notice
            and a mention of the NOTICE file for copyright info.
            The NOTICE file will include the ASF's copyright notice,
            in addition to other required notices.  Copyright 
            notices in third-party components distributed within ASF
            products will not be touched.

       CRYPTO EXPORT POLICY: I have posted a crypto policy at 
            http://apache.org/dev/crypto.html.  The policy should
            answer most of our questions in this area, but will be
            gradually enhanced over time.  

       GPLv3 COMPATIBILITY: After a close review of the first draft 
            of GPLv3, I brought up potential incompatibility issues 
            with the Apache License to the GPLv3 discussion committee
            that I serve on.  The FSF's counsel hopes these issues
            can be addressed in the next draft.  As I've said before, 
            both the FSF and the SFLC continue to be unwavering in 
            their dedication to ensure GPLv3 is compatible with Apache
            License v2.

       PATENT LICENSING IN CCLAS: I've spent a lot of time with 
            one particular corporate legal staff lately with their
            questions of whether the CCLA implies that the set of all
            possible patent claims being licensed can be known at the
            time of contribution.  It's obvious why a corporation 
            would want the answer to be affirmative; however, such an
            answer would not protect the project's work from patent
            infringement claims by a contributor regarding how their
            contribution is combined with other things.  It may be
            worth revising the (C)CLA language to make this more 
            clear.

       ELECTRONICALLY SUBMITTED AGREEMENTS: Now allowed.  See the 
            Secretary's report.

       LICENSING AUDITS: I work closely with the Eclipse Foundation's
            IP Manager, who continues to inform me of apparent 
            inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the licensing of
            ASF products.  I've been asking PMCs to address these 
            issues as they come up, but what we really need is an
            internal audit on each product to get these problems 
            fixed.  Before we can do that, we need complete 
            documentation on the things an audit should look for and
            how they should be corrected.  I will likely make this a
            priority for the "Docathon" at ApacheCon EU next month. 

       THIRD-PARTY IP: Due to the issues above, I've neglected to
            make the few remaining changes to the draft licensing
            policy doc and publish the official version.  As I 
            mentioned last month, I intend to tell PMCs that all new
            products MUST conform to the policy, but that all 
            existing products that do not currently conform need to
            only take one action over the next six months: report 
            where/how they are not conforming so that the practical
            impact of the policy can be better understood without
            yet requiring substantial changes.  The philosophy 
            behind this "impact evaluation period" is that the 
            policy was primarily intended to document the mostly
            unwritten rules today and to choose one rule when 
            multiple exist across the ASF.  Now that I've cleared
            the license header and crypto issues off the high
            priority list, I hope to focus exclusively (as much as
            possible) on getting the 1.0 version out.

    F. VP of JCP [Geir]

       No report.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Ben]

       See Attachment A

       No report.

    B. Apache Cocoon Project [Sylvain Wallez / Jim]

       See Attachment B

       Greg noted that several ASF project (still) use
       Cocoon, such as Lenya, Forrest, etc...

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Ken]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache HTTP Server Project [Roy Fielding / Sam]

       See Attachment D

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Lenya Project [Gregor J. Rothfuss / Greg]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Logging Project [Mark Womack / Dirk]

       See Attachment F

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Perl Project [Geoffrey Young / Sander]

       See Attachment G

       Approved by General Consent.

    H. Apache Xalan Project [Brian Minchau / Stefano]

       See Attachment H

       Approved by General Consent.

    I. Apache Xerces Project [Gareth Reakes / Greg]

       See Attachment I

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Sander]

       See Attachment J

       It was noted that the XMP Security Subproject will likely
       request TLP in the very short term.

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache XML Graphics Project [Jeremias Maerki / Jim]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Public Relations [Brian W. Fitzpatrick / Stefano]

       See Attachment L

       No report.

    M. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard Lewis Ship / Ken]

       See Attachment M

       Approved by General Consent.

    N. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Roy Fielding / Dirk]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent.

    O. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Ben]

       See Attachment O

       In his report, Santiago Gala expressed some concerns regarding
       the project. The board understands and appreciates the concerns
       and requests an update at the next board meeting.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

    P. Apache Incubator Project [Noel Bergman / Sam]

       See Attachment P

       Approved by General Consent.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Resolution to change chair of the Apache Cocoon Project
    
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Sylvain
       Wallez to the office of Vice President, Apache Cocoon
       Project, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Sylvain Wallez from the office of Vice
       President, Apache Cocoon Project;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Sylvain Wallez is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache Cocoon Project, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Reinhard Pötz be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Cocoon
       Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6A, a Resolution to change the
       chair of the Apache Cocoon Project, was Approved.

    B. Resolution to change chair of the Apache Logging Services Project
    
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Mark
       Womack to the office of Vice President, Apache Logging Services
       Project, and
       
       WHEREAS, the membership of the Apache Logging Services Project
       Management Committee (PMC) have nominated Curt Arnold to
       serve as chairman of the Apache Logging Services PMC; and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Mark Womack from the office of Vice
       President, Apache Logging Services Project, in favor of Curt
       Arnold's nomination;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mark Womack is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache Logging Services Project, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Curt Arnold be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Logging
       Services Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to
       the direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6B, a Resolution to change the
       chair of the Apache Logging Services Project, was Approved.

    C. Establish guidelines for handling copyright notices and license
       headers.

         WHEREAS, the copyright of contributions to The Apache
         Software Foundation remains with the contribution's owner(s),
         but the copyright of the collective work in each Foundation
         release is owned by the Foundation,

         WHEREAS, each file within a Foundation release often includes
         contributions from multiple copyright owners,

         WHEREAS, the Foundation has observed that per-file attribution
         of authorship does not promote collaborative development,

         WHEREAS, inclusion of works that have not been directly
         submitted by the copyright owners to the Foundation for
         development does not present the same collaborative
         development issues and does not allow the owners to consider
         the Foundation's copyright notice policies;

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that for the case of copyright
         notices in files contributed and licensed to The Apache
         Software Foundation, the copyright owner (or owner's agent)
         must either: remove such notices, move them to the NOTICE 
         file associated with each applicable project release, or
         provide written permission for the Foundation to make such
         removal or relocation of the notices, and be it further

         RESOLVED, that each release shall include a NOTICE file for
         such copyright notices and other notices required to accompany
         the distribution, and be it further

         RESOLVED, that the NOTICE file shall begin with the following
         text, suitably modified to reflect the product name, version,
         and year(s) of distribution of the current and past releases:

           Apache [PRODUCT_NAME]
           Copyright [yyyy] The Apache Software Foundation

           This product includes software developed at
           The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).
           
         and be it further

         RESOLVED, that files licensed to The Apache Software
         Foundation shall be labeled with the following notice:

           Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
           or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
           distributed with this work for additional information
           regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
           to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
           "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
           with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

             http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

           Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
           software distributed under the License is distributed on an
           "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
           KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
           specific language governing permissions and limitations
           under the License.
 
         and be it further

         RESOLVED, that for the case of works that have not been
         directly submitted by the copyright owners to the Foundation
         for development, the associated copyright notices for the work
         shall not be moved, removed, or modified. 

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6C, Establish guidelines for
       handling copyright notices and license headers, was Approved.

    D. Establish the Apache Testing Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best 
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the 
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management 
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of 
       open-source software related to the domain of software testing, 
       for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management 
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Testing PMC", be and 
       hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and 
       be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Testing PMC be and hereby is responsible 
       for the creation and maintenance of software related to the 
       domain of software testing; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Testing" be and 
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at 
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the 
       Testing PMC, and to have primary responsibility for management 
       of the projects within the scope of responsibility of the 
       Testing PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and 
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the 
       Testing PMC:

         Felipe Leme (felipeal@apache.org)
         Henri Yandell (bayard@apache.org)
         Rahul Akolkar (rahul@apache.org)
         Yoav Shapira (yoavs@apache.org)
         Martin van den Bemt (mvdb@apache.org)
         Sebastian Bazley (sebb@apache.org)
         Dion Gillard (dion@apache.org)
         Peter Lin ( woolfel@apache.org)
         Vincent Massol ( vmassol@apache.org)

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Felipe Leme be 
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Testing, to serve 
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board 
       of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, 
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or 
       until a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Testing PMC be and hereby is tasked 
       with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage open
       development and increased participation in the Testing Project; 
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Testing PMC be and hereby is tasked 
       with the migration and rationalization of the Apache Jakarta 
       Cactus and JMeter subprojects; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Jakarta 
       Cactus and JMeter subprojects and encumbered upon the Apache 
       Jakarta PMC are hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 6D, Establish the Apache Testing Project, was
       tabled. There was serious discussion on whether this time
       of project was focused enough and specific enough to be
       useful and valid.

 7. Discussion Items

    None.

 8. Review of Current Action Items

 9. Unfinished Business

    None.

10. New Business

    None.

11. Announcements

    None.

12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at 12:22.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

Releases / Ongoing work:
- Cocoon 2.1.9 was released in April. This is a maintenance release.
- Work on trunk is going on, that may lead either to Cocoon 2.2
  (many usability enhancements and the move from Avalon to Spring)
  or Cocoon 3.0 (2.2 + move to OSGi).

Community:
- A new committer, Simone Gianni, who also joined the PMC,
- Stefano Mazzocchi left the PMC,
- Reinhard Poetz has been elected as the PMC chair after I decided to resign.
- The community is concerned by the slowdown in contributions and new
  committers and is self-questionning about what needs to be done so
  that we attract people again.

Legal:
Nothing.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Issues needing board attention
------------------------------
None.

Changes in the PMC membership
-----------------------------
No new committers/PMC members.

General status
--------------
The development community is healthy. We recently encountered some issues
with communication style and with respect to what constitutes an "active"
developer/PMC member (see below). These issues have led to healthy and
open discussions, first on the private PMC list so that we could be frank
with each other and later on the dev lists once the "rawness" had been
removed. As a result of these discussions, the development community has
once again become focused and clearly defined.

The development community is steady, but not growing at a desirable rate.
Some new developers are taking a keen interest and making contributions.
Some longer-term developers are gathering steam.

There are three potential sessions for ApacheCon EU 2006. This is
expected to encourage an influx of developers.

We are experimenting with "project management roles" to clearly define
certain tasks that need to be done to keep the project flowing. With the
tasks being well-defined, the hope is that various people will be able
to assist and so not rely on a couple of individuals to do all the work.

Our initial project guidelines were based on copies from various other
projects and included the term "Active PMC Members". This seems to lead
to trouble. For example when voting, it is difficult to define who is
active. So we decided to drop the "Active" concept altogether. We
encourage everyone to just do whatever work that they can manage, with
absolutely no pressure from the project. PMC members can still declare
themselves "emeritus" if they feel the need. For background:
http://svn.apache.org/viewcvs?rev=406530&view=rev

Issues still to be dealt with by the Forrest PMC
------------------------------------------------
Continue our project guidelines document. Been making links to various
dev email discussions about how to deal with new development and when
to branch. Need to get that into words. Discussion has been re-kindled
recently.

Progress of the project
-----------------------
We have been making very good use of our Issue Tracker. This has enabled
us to have a better view of the state of the project and seems to be
encouraging developers to get involved.

No release date has yet been set for 0.8 but we have reached the phase
of trimming the list of scheduled issues, so the release is likely to
be soon. That is what we said in our last board report, but yes we are
making progress.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The Apache HTTP server project has had another active quarter in which
multiple products were released for GA.  We have no board-level issues
at this time.

In the last three months, we have added Nicolas Lehuen and Jim Gallacher
to the PMC for their work on the mod_python subproject. We invited
Graham Dumpleton to join the PMC as well, but he has not accepted
(reason unknown, though he did say that he received the invitation).
We also approved commit access for Chris Darroch, based on his submitted
patches.

Bill Rowe and Justin Erenkrantz have been working on clarifying
the status of the CLI subproject.  As an interim result, the
cli-dev@httpd and cli-users@httpd mailing lists have been closed
and future discussion directed to the general dev@httpd and
users@httpd lists.

The HTTP server project successfully released httpd 2.2.2, 2.0.58,
1.3.35, and 1.3.36 as GA.  The mod_python subproject successfully
released mod_python 3.2.8.  The other subprojects have been relatively
quiet, at least partly because many of our volunteers are also active
on infrastructure and that has diverted our attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Issues needing board attention
------------------------------
None.

Changes in the PMC membership
-----------------------------
No new committers/PMC members.

General status
--------------
Development on both trunk and the 1.2 branch continues, with improved
WebDAV support, better test cases, better Open Office support, a
simplified build process, and further work on the repository layer,
and modularization of the code.

A discussion on the PMC list about the expectations for the PMC chair
sparked work on the Lenya project guidelines on the dev@ list. The
work to complete these guidelines is ongoing at the time of this
report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Logging Project


PMC Report
----------

* The Logging Services PMC continues to track projects under incubation: 
  log4net, log4php.
  
* The LS PMC voted to nominate Curt Arnold to the ASF Board for the position
  of LS PMC Chair.  A resolution was submitted to the ASF Board for
  consideration at the May board meeting.
  

log4cxx Report
--------------

* Several issues blocking a 0.10.0 (formerly 0.9.8) release have been resolved.
  Need to have a sprint to get a release out the door.

  
log4j Report
------------

* Work continues on version 1.3; Version 1.3a8 released back in February.  Many
  issues around compatibility with v1.2.X were addressed.


log4net Report
--------------

* The log4net project is still in incubation.

* The log4net team has recently release 1.2.10. This release includes many
  minor fixes which dramaticaly improve the quality of the release. One of 
  these is a fix for a security issue that was raised through 
  security@apache.org. We would like to thank Mark Cox from the security 
  team for his help managing this issue.


log4php Report
--------------

* The log4php project is still in incubation.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

Nothing much happening on that track.  No new mod_perl 1.x releases
since the last report.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

no new mod_perl 2.x releases since the last report


--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

Recent releases:

 1.28 - February 22, 2006
 
 
-- Development --
 
mod_perl continues to be an active and healthy development community -
bugs are found, bugs are fixed, development moves forward as usual.
 
 
-- Users --
 
The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.
 
 
-- PMC --
 
no interesting pmc activities this quarter, though it seems talk
surrounding our crypto export status is popping up again.  I really
wish we had more legal direction here.
 

-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

Xalan-C
=======

Nothing new to report, just the usual bug fixing.


Xalan-J
=======

Not much to report, just the usual bug fixing.

The only large bug of note was XALANJ-1324, "XSLTC error: Branch
target offset too large for short". Similar issues are common to all
tools that generate Java byte code. There is a maximum amount of code
that can occur in a block of code that can be branched around.  Thanks
to Henry Zongaro for fixing this with a large patch that crossed 39
source parts.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

The Xerces-J 2.8.0 was released at the beginning of March. This
release introduces several new validation related features and
provides enhancements to the XML schema annotation support. Also in
March, we added a new committer (Peter McCracken). With the 2.8.0
release out of the way the developers are now beginning to work on
JAXP 1.4, including an implementation of StAX (JSR 173). We're hoping
to get at least one student involved in the project over the summer
through Google Summer of Code.


Xerces-C/P

Xerces P is now pretty much integrated into Xerces C. This gives the
advantages of increased oversight (there is only 1 committer on
Xerces-P) and a pretty good test suite for Xerces-C. It should also be
less work to update P in the future. In addition, we are aiming to
produce different SWIG bindings for other languages in future
releases.

Work is progressing on the 3.0 release. We are in the stage of
ensuring the new build system compiles on a decent number of the
supported platforms.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache XML Project

General
=======

Things have been overall very quiet on the XML project. Unfortunately, 
it's hard to say that no news is good news in this case: the lack of 
real stuff happening around the project means that the current status 
of the PMC can be hardly described as functional. Basically, it seems 
that the attention threshold from the current PMC members has dropped, 
which is understandable given - again - the lack of activity. While 
there's nothing intrinsically bad in having a quasi-dormant PMC if the 
situation is stable, it should be noted that it might be hard in the 
future to gather attention on urgent items, given how producing this 
report has been tough in terms of having to ask people several times 
to get the required information and failing partly at it (AxKit didn't 
submit any status update). Also, the XML Commons report suggests that 
the PMC isn't quite doing its job in terms of oversight. It's probably 
worth considering what the natural evolution of the XML PMC should be 
in the next few months.

XML-Commons
===========
Some minor changes in Externals.

Externals has been tagged for versions 1.2.05 and 1.3.03 but this
release wasn't sanctioned by the PMC which is a little disturbing as the
XML PMC is the responsible entity for XML Commons. I assume this was
done as part of the Xerces 2.8.0 release, so if the Xerces PMC properly
followed due dilligence, no real harm is done.

Discussions started about adding JAXP 1.4 support to Externals. There
has been an exchange with the XMLBeans PMC which maintains a copy of the
JSR 173 (StAX) API. Some origin and legal issues are being investigated.

The XML Resolver enjoyed a few bugfixes and improvements after a longer
sleeping period.

XML-Security
============
XML-Security is working towards a 1.4 release for the Java library with
the JSR-105 interface code.  A 1.3 release is planned for the C++
library with a complete XKMS message set implementation.
The project is also looking to be promoted to TLP status
status as well.  There will be a vote on the security list, and a discussion
on pmc@xml in order to get it to the board, possibly by June.

Xindice
=======
Xindice got a new committer (Todd Byrne) in March; other than that - 
nothing to report.

Axkit
====
No report received from the AxKit PMC members. A quick glance to the 
mailing lists reveals an almost dormant project, should be safe to assume
no activity to report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments
----------------
One new committer (Dieter von Holten) with write access to Batik. We hope 
this brings new energy into Batik.

Cameron McCormack (cam) joined the XML Graphics PMC.

XML Graphics Commons
--------------------
Our new subproject XML Graphics Commons has finally started and has been
populated with the first classes from Batik and FOP. Version 1.0 has
been released 2006-04-17. We will continue to migrate components as time
allows to work towards a clear dependency tree inside the XML Graphics
project.

Batik
-----
Steady activity rate with bugfixes and improvements. No releases. The
Batik website is about to be converted to use Apache Forrest. Batik will
be affected by the new license policy (Rhino, NPL). The move of the W3C
licensed DOM API classes to XML Commons Externals is still not completed
which is a precondition for the next release.

FOP
---
Lots of bugfixing and some new features, too. One release: 0.92 beta
(2006-04-18). This is the last beta release before finally going for 1.0.
It's also the first release to use XML Graphics Commons.

The API is now finalized and we're quickly approaching production grade
for most use cases. We've been able to complete the rather long IP
clearance process for the AFP renderer (took us more than 4 months) and
we've been able to resurrect the PCL renderer, so FOP now has two new
output formats.

We've got two students for the GSoC wanting to implement long-missing
features: auto-table layout and floats. We hope the applications get
through and we can get over another milestone for FOP. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Public Relations


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

New committers Brian, Andreas and Jesse continue to attack the bug
list and missing documentation. Another round of bug fixes for the
Tapestry 3 and Tapestry 4 branches are (or near) ready for release.

Kent Tong has finally gotten Subversion access.

Committers now have proper access via SVN.

A new Tapestry logo has been created and will debut on the revised
project web page, once that is available.

Howard Lewis Ship has been working on the Tapestry 5 code base.

Tapestry 4.1 development progress coming along smoothly, featuring
improved integration with the Dojo JavaScript toolkit. Expecting to be
ready for an alpha release by end of May.

Infrastructure has set up a blank tapestry.apache.org web site, ready
to be populated, as well as setting up the new Tapestry mailing lists.
Still to be done: moving the wiki to the new domain.

Tapestry is due to receive the Duke's Choice award from Sun at JavaOne
on May 16 2006.  Howard Lewis Ship will be onhand to accept the award
on behalf of the Tapestry project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

The Apache Jackrabbit project has had a relatively quiet month
since our last report.  We have no board issues at this time.

The response to our 1.0 release has been very positive and the
number of active participants on the dev list has increased
substantially. Many of the Jackrabbit developers attended the
JSR 283 face-to-face meeting in Basel, Switzerland, on May 2-3.
The JSR 283 EG agreed that Jukka Zitting could publish a
summary of what was being planned for future JCR API revisions
to the public Apache lists.  Issue items and proposals for
the JCR 1.1 and 2.0 APIs are being tracked at
<https://jsr-283.dev.java.net/>.  All of the Jackrabbit
committers are also members of the JSR 283 expert group.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

Q1
==

After ApacheCON 2005 San Diego, we got some progress in how to further
integrate the jetspeed, cocoon and pluto portals modules, so that the
code base gets more modular.

New portals committers: (David Jencks, Ralph Goers, Ulrich Kuester)

Jetspeed kept teady progress towards 2.1
Ditto for Pluto towards 1.1
WSRP4J is again seeing some activity after a long time dormant

Q2
==

Little activity in the -dev lists, mostly meaning that most of the
committer base is busy working towards forthcoming releases and/or day
work, related in most cases with portals.

Pluto is about to release version 1.1.  pluto-1.1beta1, released May
18, passes the JSR-168 TCK, except for two bugs


The chairman, i.e. /me, i.e. Santiago Gala, has been lacking time to
devote to the portals.apache.org project due to personal circunstances
and the fact that my day job is no longer related with portals.

I am seeing community problems at portals as a whole. Little
integration effort has been going on after the F2F meeting at San
Diego, where significant progress went on towards the acceptance of
portals-bridges as a place for common (non container) JSR-168 code,
and pluto as the place for container work. Fortunately all
portals.apache.org implementations (cocoon portal, jetspeed-2,
jetspeed-1-fusion) do use pluto as a base.

JSR-286 got started for a revision of JSR-168, with an Apache Portals
committer as chair, and the first notification on our lists came from
a third party committer posting in our lists about it. This is not a
good symptom of integration at the pmc level.

Also, the presence of several active committer around the expert group
would probably distract discussions from the public lists.

The fact that a lot of technical discussions are being held over irc
is not a good symptom, either.

I am planning to address those issues, including a formal charter and
election for PMC Chair after ApacheCON EU, trying to get some
advantage of the set of F2F meetings there and the fact that final
exams are close to stop sucking my time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Projects continue to settle into the task of Incubation.  We will
likely hold a meeting at ApacheCon EU in June to work on documentation
to try and polish our processes and documentation.  Might be worth
having a BOF one evening for every attendee involved in the Incubator.

A nice thing to see has been that with a continued influx of projects
has come new mentors.

Although we don't have any projects applying for TLP status this
month, we may have a few soon.

       --- Noel
       
-------------------------------------------------------------------
       
ActiveMQ
       
The STATUS file for the project is up to date. The code is clean and
using only Apache-compliant libraries, it has the correct copyright
notices and is in the org.apache.activemq namespace. We've got all the
software grants sorted and all developers have their CLAs on file and
accounts created. The project's active mailing lists are proof of the
vibrant community behind ActiveMQ. Nathan Mittler was voted in as
committer due to his excellent work on the C++ client for ActiveMQ.

The Java code base has has being going through QA and stabilization
for the past few months and several release candidates for 4.0 have
been cut. The 4.0 final release is currently under Vote and we expect
to have a final release very shortly. Development is starting to gear
up now for the 4.1 release and we are excited to find out where the
community and committers drive the development of the next 4.1
release.

The website home page has now been sorted out and is being checked
into svn.  The static HTML is being generated from a Confluence wiki
and content is very easy to update now. See:
http://incubator.apache.org/activemq/


ADF Faces

Mailing lists, subversion repository, and JIRA setup was completed,
along with accounts for two new committers to the podling. Initial
code drop committed to repository, starting to work through package
name adjustments and code review.


Cayenne

Initial committer accounts were created and the Jira migration was
completed. Migration of SourceForge CVS to Apache SVN was
completed. New modules developed since the Incubator proposal was
submitted (namely JPA module) are switched to the new package naming:
org.apache.cayenne. The core modules still use org.objectstyle.cayenne
naming.


Kabuki

Working on project documentation and logistics for using toolkit
hosted at Apache.


Lokahi

Not much going on this month, after a fairly active month in
April. Not issues that need the Incubator PMC or Board attention at
this time. Hoping to get more done in the next month or two...


Lucene.Net

Lucene.Net is progressing well. Recently MSDN style documentation was
added, the website was ironed out a bit and we are on track to release
Lucene.Net 1.9 by end of May. Also, the mailing list at ASF is now
starting to see some traffic. We are still awaiting the finalization
to add our second committer, to the project which we expect to be
completed this month.


Ode

Accounts have been created for almost everybody in the first round of
committers. Active discussion is underway about various subjects such
as the engine core structure or the deployment model. An IRC chat is
scheduled to kick-start these issues. A couple of modules (parser and
bom) have also been voted to be imported in Ode's trunk.


OFBiz

The main issue at the moment continues to be the gathering of
iCLAs. We're making progress:

 Total number of contributors contacted: 104
 Number of contributors with iCLA already filed at ASF: 41
 Number of contributors that have already sent their iCLA, but still
   not filed at ASF: 18
 Number of contributors who have not yet sent their iCLA: 45
 
We will begin discussing alternative strategies, such as clean-room
re-implementations, for code whose contributors have not sent in their
CLAs yet.

We've made some significant progress in replacing LGPL jars, mainly
JOTM, the default transaction manager of OFBiz. We've integrated the
Geronimo/Jencks transaction manager (TM) into OFBiz, and early testing
shows it's working fine. We continue testing and gathering feedback,
and anticipate that we will be able to remove the JOTM jars soon. At
the same time, we will be able to remove some other, less critical,
LGPLed jars. Once that's done, we plan to move the OFBiz codebase to
the Incubator SVN server

A new committer has been added to the project (Jacques Le Roux): he is
a longtime contributor and is doing some interesting implementation
for the POS (Point of Sale) component, so the core group of initial
committers has (succesfully) voted to grant him commit rights to the
POS component.


ServiceMix

The STATUS file for the project is up to date. The code is clean and
using only Apache-compliant libraries, it has the correct copyright
notices and is in the org.apache.servicemix namespace. We've got all
the software grants sorted and all developers have their CLAs on file
and accounts created. The project has very active mailing lists.

The code base is going through a stabilization phase. The community is
actively working on cutting Servicemix 3.0 M1 release
candidates. Hopefully once of those release candidates will make it to
a votes and pass soon.

The website home page has now been sorted out and is being checked
into svn.  The static HTML is being generated from a Confluence wiki
and content is very easy to update now. See:
http://incubator.apache.org/servicemix/


stdcxx

Stdcxx status report for the calendar quarter ending in 4/2006:

This is the third quarterly report for stdcxx.

Since the last report the stdcxx community has added a new committer,
Anton Pevtsov, and with his help successfully completed the release of
version 4.1.3 of the project.

Since the relase the team has made significant progress migrating the
Rogue Wave C++ Standard Library test harness and test suite to the
Apache stdcxx test driver. The stdcxx community also continues to
increase the visibility of the project with the goal of further
raising the number as well as diversity of its users, contributors,
and committers.

The plan for the next three months is to continue to work on migrating
the test suite and, in parallel, to enhance the support for the C++
Standard Library extensions described in the Technical Report on C++
Library Extensions and recently voted into the working paper of the
(next) C++ Standard expected to be released by 2009.


Synapse

After the M1 release in December, Synapse had a slow start to the
year.  However, recently the project has restarted in full vigor with
some key design improvements to make things cleaner and easier to
develop. The focus on the XML config model has been reduced with the
Synapse system being run on an object model config which can be filled
using the XML config language or directly (or from a database or
whatever). We're now working towards an M2 release ASAP to get wider
feedback on the core design and architecture and if that goes well
another release by ApacheCon to get closer to the desired function for
the system.

Community development is also making slow but steady progress. The
diversity has improved and we've recently added a new committer as
well. If all goes well and if the community development continues,
Synapse should be ready for graduation soon - probably before
ApacheCon.


Tuscany

On the Java side, Community and code development are continuing. We
have added two new committers (Ant Elder and Daniel Kulp) since the
last report and have many other people active on the mailing lists. We
have been working toward a Java release which is intended to allow
others to easily contribute plugins and other functionality in order
to further expand the community. A vote on a candidate started on the
development list (as of 5/18/06) and if passed we will be asking the
Incubator PMC for permission to release it.

After a slower start development is now also ramping up on the C++
codebase but additional effort will be needed to attract new community
members.


WebWork 2

We resolved the remaining IP issues that included LGPL Javascript
dependencies, invalid copyrights (MyCorp, Inc), and code grants for
valid copyrights. The Struts PMC then successfully voted to accept the
WebWork 2 podling and the Incubator PMC vote passed as well. The
infrastructure and website-related graduation tasks have been
completed and we are now fully graduated.


Woden

Woden project members are actively engaged with the W3C Web Service
Description Working Group to define interoperability testing. Woden
has now implemented the WSDL Component Model Interchange Format which
is being used to compare parser implementations. A W3C interop event
is being planned for July 5-7 at the IBM Toronto Lab. Woden project
members will participate in this event. The goal of this event is to
advance the WSDL 2.0 specification beyond the Candidate Recommendation
stage.


Yoko

Project just started incubation. CLAs are on file for the initial
committers. A CCLA has been received for the initial contributions of
Java ORB implementation and the code has been imported into SVN
repository.  Mailing lists, subversion repository, and JIRA setup was
completed. Activity is starting on the development mailing list.

Currently dev team started to discuss what would be a good first
milestone release and its definition.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the May 24, 2006 board meeting.
