
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                   Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                              24 July 2000


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700. After some delay
    with the phones, a quorum was recognized by the chair and the meeting
    started at 10:24.  The meeting was held by teleconference hosted by
    Covalent Technologies.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Ben Laurie
        Rasmus Lerdorf
        Doug MacEachern
        Randy Terbush
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Directors Absent:
        Jim Jagielski [stranded on an island]

    Guests:
        James Duncan Davidson (V.P., Jakarta)

 3. Minutes from the meetings of 28 February 2000 and 10 March 2000

    The minutes from the board meeting of 28 February 2000 were amended
    to remove an editorial question from the Secretary.  The amended minutes
    were then approved by general consent.  The minutes are recorded at
    <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2000/
    board_minutes_2000_02_28.txt>.

    The minutes from the board meeting of 10 March 2000 were approved
    by general consent.  The minutes are recorded at
    <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2000/
    board_minutes_2000_03_10.txt>.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman   [Roy]

       There have been no legal challenges to the Foundation's actions or
       activities.  Board meetings have slowed down due to the difficulty
       of scheduling a synchronous meeting with our busy schedules, and
       due to our inability to accomplish things asynchronously on the
       board list without a hard deadline.  We need to find a solution
       that works on a reliable basis, such as a shorter bi-weekly meeting.

       I have been attempting to build a secure website and voting forum
       for use by the board, projects, and members of the Foundation, but
       have been hampered by the lack of a non-firewalled network connection
       and the need for a dedicated machine only accessible by ASF members.
       Suggestions are welcome.

       The next two months will be very busy for me due to my deadline
       for finishing the dissertation [final defense August 10, final
       signed copy by September 13].

       In discussion, Brian suggested that we use locus.apache.org as the
       secure website and simply use group assignment to control access.
       Further discussion of this will take place on the board mail list.

    B. President  [Brian]

       Brian reported that not much has changed in the ASF operations since
       the last meeting, aside from the hardware problems on locus seeming
       to be fixed by the latest replacement.  He has been looking for ways
       to increase his own free time to spend on Apache, mostly by delegating
       more of his other work at Collab.Net.  He continues to speak on behalf
       of Apache at various conferences, but is mostly focused on improving
       our server and network infrastructure.

    C. Treasurer  [Randy]

       Randy reported that the donations address on our website should be
       updated to read

            The Apache Software Foundation
            c/o Covalent Technologies, Inc.
            706 Mission Street, Second Floor
            San Francisco, CA  94103-3163

       Our current finance situation is positive and exceeds our planned
       expenditures for this year.  A complete accounting will be provided
       to the members in private, due to the privacy concerns of donees.
       Major donations included $9000 from the Certicom challenge won by
       the ECDL project (Rob Harley and colleagues), $10,000 from the
       1999 ACM Software System Award, and $1000 each from Digital Campaigns,
       Inc., and Expertcity.com.

       Almost half of the Foundation's current funds are from the proceeds
       of the successful ApacheCon 2000 conference in Orlando.  Brian thanked
       Ken Coar and the conferences committee for producing an outstanding
       conference and significantly improving the financial condition of
       the Foundation as a result.

       Randy reported that our accountants have filed for 501(c)(3) status
       on behalf of the Foundation, but there has not been any response yet
       from the IRS.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim reported [via e-mail] that all was well with the office.
       He has accepted a new position as CTO of ZEND, which should not
       adversely impact his role in the ASF.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Conferences Committee [Ken]

       Ken reported that registration for ApacheCon 2000 Europe is now open.
       42 sessions (62 hours) have been scheduled for three meeting rooms.
       IBM, Sun, Covalent, and others have signed up as sponsors.  Unlike
       Orlando, we are just hoping to break even at this conference, due to
       the lower attendance expectations and the expensive venue.  The
       committee has come to the conclusion that 2 events per year would be
       a good thing, and is currently looking for alternative non-US venues.

       Brian suggested that we make use of the apache-announce list for
       at least one announcement of the upcoming conference, since none
       had been posted to that list yet.

    B. Apache HTTP Server Committee [BenH]

       Ben Hyde was not present, though he did send a message to the
       apache core list with a draft of the HTTP Server Committee status.
       Roy suggests that this be sent to the board mailing list when ready.

    C. Apache XML Committee [Dirk]

       Dirk reported that he had been working on ways to separate new project
       incubation from software project controls.  The main concern was the
       proper way to initiate new projects like SOAP.  He would like to
       give PMC the power to decide issues regarding new projects.

       Ben pointed out that this was the opposite of the opinions being
       expressed on the members list.  In particular, that a project should
       be focused on a single product family and the PMC consist of the
       primary developers on that product family.

       Brian suggested that there needs to be a difference between us and
       a place that will host any open-source software project.  We want to
       avoid confusing people about the Apache philosophy -- projects should
       be here for a reason.

       Several directors expressed concern over one of the primary reasons
       that SOAP was placed in the XML PMC rather than some other project,
       namely that the XML PMC was perceived as being more friendly to the
       organization that developed the original SOAP library code.  It was
       pointed out that SOAP more properly belongs in the realm of httpd.
       The fact that such a decision was made without technical rationale
       and without input from the members points to a broken process.

       James Duncan Davidson joined the teleconference and reported that
       he was working on a new roadmap for PMCs in which the httpd project
       guidelines would apply uniformly to all projects, and that less mature
       projects would be housed in a general incubator PMC.  It was generally
       agreed that further discussion of this issue should take place on the
       members mailing list.

    D. Apache Jakarta Committee [James Duncan Davidson]

       James reported that the Jakarta projects are running smoothly, with
       lots of downloads, and things going well.  A small re-org was done
       to add some new modules: Taglibs (tag libraries based on the JSP
       spec), a pair of Java regex libraries, Slide (DAV), and a project
       to study the Model-View-Controller pattern M3.  There is a need to
       figure out how Slide should relate to mod_dav in the httpd project.

       Moving projects from java.apache.org is still on the roadmap.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Clarification on open board mailing list and archives

       Ben Hyde requested that the current status of the availability of
       board mailing list and archive to member subscription and viewing be
       made part of the corporate record.  There was some discussion of
       archiving the board-private list as well, but Roy pointed out that the
       board-private list exists solely because it is private and that any
       official board actions must take place on the board list or during
       a board meeting.

       The following resolution was approved by vote of the directors
       present, with six yea votes (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug),
       two nay votes (Randy, Dirk), and no abstentions.
       
          RESOLVED, that subscription to the board mailing list be open to
          any member of the Apache Software Foundation; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the board mailing list archives be accessible and
          readable by any member of the Apache Software Foundation.

    B. Authorize budget for retaining counsel on crypto export issues

       This item had previously been discussed on the board mailing list.
       The following resolution was approved by unanimous vote of the
       directors present (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug, Randy, Dirk).

          WHEREAS, Ralf S. Engelschall, a member of the Foundation, has
          requested that the Foundation obtain counsel for the purpose of
          obtaining permission under U.S. export regulations to publish
          open-source software containing various forms of cryptographic
          algorithms and/or hooks; and further

          WHEREAS, Ben Laurie has contacted Cindy Cohn as an appropriate
          legal expert on matters related to crypto export and has begun
          negotiations on a suitable fee agreement.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that an amount up to but not
          exceeding USD $5,000.00 is hereby authorized for expenditure on
          counsel for the purpose of determining the correct procedures for
          the Foundation to legally publish open-source software containing
          various forms of cryptographic algorithms and/or hooks; and further

          RESOLVED, that Cindy Cohn be retained as legal counsel to the
          Foundation for this purpose.

    C. Authorize budget for payment of member fees at ApacheCon 2000 Europe

       There was a general discussion of whether we should defray the
       attendance fee for all ASF members attending ApacheCon 2000 Europe,
       or only for those who need it.

       The following resolution was approved by unanimous vote of the
       directors present (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug, Randy, Dirk).

          WHEREAS, it is in the interests of the Foundation to encourage
          as many of its members as possible to attend and participate in the
          ApacheCon 2000 Europe conference; and further

          WHEREAS, the conference committee has determined that a fee of $150
          is necessary to cover the basic expenses of attendance at the
          conference for members who are not speakers.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that an amount up to but not
          exceeding USD $150.00 per ASF member in attendance at ApacheCon 2000
          Europe, but not speaking at the conference, is hereby authorized for
          payment to the conference organizer, up to but not exceeding a
          maximum of USD $6,750.00, for the purpose of obtaining a complete
          fee-waiver for all ASF members attending ApacheCon 2000 Europe.

    D. Update membership of the Apache HTTP Server Committee

       Ben Hyde expressed a desire that the Board officially recognize the
       current status of membership in the HTTP Server Committee.  There was
       some discussion about whether it was more appropriate to limit the
       membership to only those recently active in the project, but it was
       decided in principle that we should first recognize the current
       status and suggest to the server committee that they should discuss
       the issue within the project and decide for themselves.

       The following resolution was approved by vote of the directors
       present, with six yea votes (Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Randy, Dirk),
       no nay votes, and one abstention (Brian).  Doug was absent for
       this vote.
       
          WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the Foundation to have
          each Project Management Committee consist of those individuals
          who are active volunteers working on the projects assigned to
          that committee; and further

          WHEREAS, the existing members of the Apache HTTP Server Committee
          have nominated the following additional individuals to serve on
          that committee.

             Ryan Bloom, Tony Finch, Brian Havard, Manoj Kasichainula,
             Rasmus Lerdorf, David Reid, Daniel Lopez Ridruejo,
             William A. Rowe, Chuck Murcko, Wilfredo Sanchez, and Greg Stein.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately
          below be and hereby are appointed to serve as members of the Apache
          HTTP Server Committee, effective immediately.

             Brian Behlendorf       Ryan Bloom           Ken Coar
             Mark Cox               Lars Eilebrecht      Ralf S. Engelschall
             Roy T. Fielding        Tony Finch           Dean Gaudet
             Dirk-Willem van Gulik  Brian Havard         Ben Hyde
             Jim Jagielski          Manoj Kasichainula   Alexei Kosut
             Martin Kraemer         Ben Laurie           Rasmus Lerdorf
             Daniel Lopez Ridruejo  Doug MacEachern      Aram Mirzadeh
             Chuck Murcko           Sameer Parekh        David Reid
             William A. Rowe        Wilfredo Sanchez     Cliff Skolnick
             Marc Slemko            Greg Stein           Bill Stoddard
             Paul Sutton            Randy Terbush

          BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the board reiterates its appointment
          of Ben Hyde as V.P., Apache HTTP Server, and chairman of the Apache
          HTTP Server Committee.

    E. Update membership of the Apache XML Committee

       Randy had to leave the teleconference at this point (12:01pm PDT).

       The following resolution was approved by unanimous vote of the
       directors present (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug, Dirk).

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately
          below be and hereby are appointed to serve as members of the Apache
          XML Project Management Committee, effective immediately.

             Scott Boag          Tim Bray               James Duncan Davidson
             Mike Dierken        Pier Paolo Fumagalli   Ted Leung
             Stefano Mazzocchi   Mike Pogue             James Tauber
             Keith Visco         Dirk-Willem van Gulik

          BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the board reiterates its appointment
          of Dirk-Willem van Gulik as V.P., Apache XML, and chairman of the
          Apache XML Project Management Committee.

    F. Establishment of an Apache PHP Committee

       There was some discussion regarding the nature of the relationship
       and licensing issues between the ASF and the PHP Association, but it
       was generally felt that we should recognize the people who we believe
       should be responsible for defining that relationship.

       The following resolution was approved by vote of the directors
       present, with six yea votes (Brian, Ken, Roy, Rasmus, Doug, Dirk),
       no nay votes, and one abstention (Ben).  Ben wished it to be recorded
       that the reason for his abstention is that he didn't feel the
       question of licensing had bottomed out.

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of open-source software related to the PHP software
          product for distribution at no charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a Project Management
          Committee, to be known as the "Apache PHP Committee", be and hereby
          is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the Apache PHP Committee be and hereby is responsible
          for the creation and maintenance of software related to the PHP
          software product based on software licensed to the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache PHP" be and
          hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at the
          direction of the Board of Directors as the chairman of the Apache PHP
          Committee, and to have primary responsibility for management of the
          projects within the scope of responsibility of the Apache PHP
          Committee; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
          appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache PHP Committee.

             Thies C. Arntzen       Stig Bakken           Shane Caraveo
             Andi Gutmans           Rasmus Lerdorf        Sam Ruby
             Sascha Schumann        Zeev Suraski          Jim Winstead
             Andrei Zmievski

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Rasmus Lerdorf be and
          hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache PHP,
          to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
          Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
          resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
          successor is appointed; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the initial Apache PHP Committee be and hereby is
          tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage
          open development and increased participation in the PHP Project.

    G. Establishment of an Apache/TCL Project

       The following resolution was approved by unanimous vote of the
       directors present (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug, Dirk).

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of open-source software related to the TCL scripting
          language for distribution at no charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a Project Management
          Committee, to be known as the "Apache TCL Project Management
          Committee", be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
          Foundation; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the Apache TCL Project Management Committee be
          and hereby is responsible for the creation and maintenance of
          software related to the TCL scripting language based on software
          licensed to the Foundation; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache TCL" be
          and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at the
          direction of the Board of Directors as the chairman of the Apache TCL
          Project Management Committee, and to have primary responsibility for
          management of the projects within the scope of responsibility of the
          Apache TCL Project Management Committee; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
          appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache TCL Project
          Management Committee.

             Dirk-Willem van Gulik   <dirkx@webweaving.org>
             Daniel Lopez Ridruejo   <daniel@covalent.net>
             David N. Welton         <davidw@linuxcare.com>

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that David N. Welton be
          and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache TCL,
          to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
          Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
          resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
          successor is appointed; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the initial Apache TCL Project Management Committee
          be and hereby is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws
          intended to encourage open development and increased participation
          in the TCL Project.

    H. Acclamation of Apache Conferences Committee

       There was a discussion on whether the mandate for the conferences
       committee should be limited to a two-year term, but an amendment to
       that effect was put to vote and was not approved, with two yea votes
       (Brian, Dirk), four nay votes (Roy, Rasmus, Ken, Ben), and one
       abstention (Doug).

       The following resolution was approved by vote of the directors
       present, with six yea votes (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug),
       one nay vote (Dirk), and no abstentions.
       
          BE IT RESOLVED, that the Conferences Committee is hereby tasked
          with the responsibility, and empowered with the authority, to act
          on behalf of the Foundation and in the Foundation's best interests
          in all matters involving Foundation production, sponsorship, or
          participation in conferences, exhibitions, or trade shows.

    I. Budgeting for counsel on member employment agreements and NDAs

       This item was tabled until a future meeting when Ben Hyde might
       be present.

    J. Official policy regarding use of the Apache name for such
       things as the CPAN Apache:: class hierarchy.

       This item was tabled in the interests of time.

    K. Coriolis copyright infringement

       Update from Dirk on Coriolis book that stripped our license and
       added a GPL license.  Dirk indicated that he is waiting for a
       response from our lawyers.

    L. Budgeting for ASF Hackathon event prior to ApacheCon 2000 Europe

       Ben Laurie commented that the event is still being planned for
       the weekend prior to ApacheCon 2000 Europe, but that he wasn't
       yet aware of the budget requirements.  He will inform the board
       when estimates are available.

    M. Plan for creating an annual report for fy1999

       This item was tabled in the interests of time.

    N. Plan for creating a budget for fy2000

       This item was tabled in the interests of time.

 7. Unfinished Business

 8. New Business

    A. Authorization to enable donation of funds by credit card

       The Treasurer requested that the board provide specific authorization
       to enable the donation of funds by credit card.  The following
       resolution was approved by unanimous vote of the directors present
       (Brian, Ken, Roy, Ben, Rasmus, Doug, Dirk):

          WHEREAS, it is in the interests of the Foundation to encourage
          donations from as many sources as possible; and further

          WHEREAS, being able to accept major credit cards is considered
          important.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Treasurer is tasked on
          behalf of the Foundation to pursue and take those actions needed
          to allow the Foundation to accept donations by major credit cards.

 9. Announcements

    Brian reported that an Apache boating firm had requested the right to
    use the apache.net domain name.  That name is currently owned by
    Gordon Irlam, and that his original intention was to reserve it
    against misuse by other companies.  The board's consensus was that
    Brian should ask Gordon if he wants to transfer ownership of the
    domain to the ASF, and if so to complete the transfer and not allow
    the boating firm to use the domain.  Otherwise, it is up to Gordon.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned at 12:26pm PDT -0700.

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
End of minutes
